---
title: "2008.nguyen.We Return In Order to take leave "
---
* Mdnotes File Name: [2008.nguyen-We return in order to take leave](002.LiteratureNotes/2008.nguyen-We%20return%20in%20order%20to%20take%20leave.md)

# We return in order to take leave. 
[natalie nguyen](005.Authors/natalie%20nguyen.md)

**Short summary**: initial returnsmultiple returnsthose who did not returnunderlying theme of all returns were "family". Vietnam means above all, family" (p. 24)

---

**Extracted Annotations (12/23/2021, 2:43:48 PM)**


imaginary undertakings of those who choose not to travel back to Vietnam. The article will examine three factors: howwomen remember the past, how they negotiate the return journey, and the role of memory in their narratives.women remember the past, how they negotiate the return journey, and the role of memory in their narratives. ([note on p.3) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=2)



methodology 

a. A total of forty-two women were interviewed between 2005 and 2008. ([note on p.4) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=3)



recurring narrative elements:

While the timing and circumstances of the women's return jour-neys may vary, their stories contain recurring narrative elements: their overwhelming emotion on first seeing their country again; heightened levels of anxiety, apprehension and anticipation; and,inevitably, the traumatic reliving of their initial departure ([note on p.5) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=4)


 


generational memory of first gen.

. On the other hand, the narratives of those who were either children when they left or too young to remember the original departure reveal yet another dimension. Their accounts illustrate the extent to which their parents' memories and trauma have in turn colored their perception of Vietnam, and of the returnjourney ([note on p.5) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=4)


 


narratives reveal two factors: 1. motivation of return is family2. life now centered in host country and origin country is lost ([note on p.5) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=4)


 


home and preoccupation with homeland continue to assume disproportionate importance in Viet diasporic memory.

. As Mandy Thomas notes, these dreams are characteristic of displaced people, and play an important role in counteracting their sense of displacement, as well as reconnecting them to their former lives (1999:177). These dreams are accompanied by acute homesickness (Thomas 1999:177). Although the intensity of this feel-ing may fade with the passing years, home and the preoccupation with homeland continue to assume a disproportionate importance in the Vietnamese diasporic imaginary ([note on p.9) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=8)


 


juxtaposed with Nguyne's research, the 2nd generation did not feel the same type of anxieties as their 1st generation parents may have. 

Her narrative underlines her increasing agitation, and is struc- tured around a rapid succession of interrogative and exclamatory sentences that convey the tempo of feelings and events. The reiter- ated phrase "I was shaking" reveals the level of her distress and thephysiological reaction that she could not seem to contro ([note on p.11) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=10)


 


stress of delays and aggravations associated with travel but compounded by illegal fleeing and internment in VN ([note on p.14) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=13)


 


if it weren't for her father, she wouldn't have returned.

father underline the fact that he was the only denominator that waspowerful enough to make her undertake this journe ([note on p.14) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=13)


 


1st gen diasporic vietnamese experience nostalgia that cannot be found. mat nuoc, "evokes an ordeal by thirst, the despair of a fish out of water".

The Vietnamese word for water, nuoc, as Huynh Sanh Thong reminds us, also denotes homeland, country, and nation (1998:vii). To lose one's country, mat nuoc, "evokes an ordeal by thirst, the despair of a fish out of water" (Huynh 1998:vii). Tien's narrative has an elegiac and nostalgic dimension. Her repeated assertions that she can no longer find what she is seeking reflect the experience of many other diasporic Vietnamese. Her words underline the feelings of bereave- ment that the return journey engendered. The city and country that she once knew had altered beyond recognition. Her memor ([note on p.16) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=15)


 


memory returning unchanged but suffused with a sense of loss. 

t. As Nicola King suggests, "there are moments when memory seems to return us to a past unchanged by the passing of time; such memories tend to be suffused with a sense of loss, the nostalgia out of which they may be at least in part created" (2000:2 ([note on p.18) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=17)


 


conscious of the grief of not only those who left (parents) but those who were left behind (graphdparents, relatives) ([note on p.19) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=18)


 


return as a betrayal to those who lost their lives partaking in the journey. no desire to return.

I had no inclination to go back, because I left the country as a refugee and it was a very treacherous journey and I felt that bygoing back I'd be betraying all the people who have lost their lives and all the soldiers who have risked their life to defendour country, so that's why I haven't returned ([note on p.21) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=20)


 


loyalty as the main theme of Ngoc who decides not to return to preserve her loyalty to relatives in re-education camps and struggles of those who escaped (and died). ([note on p.22) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=21)


 


VN in the imaginary of Thy, who left as a 1-yr-old

, Vietnam is an imaginary place shaped by the stories of others and by old pictures, news footage, and documentaries of the Vietnam War ([note on p.22) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=21)


 


underlying theme of all returns were "family". Vietnam means above all, family" (p. 24) ([note on p.24) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=23)


 


generational memory of VN although didn't live through it. gleaned through overheard stories and footage of war.

Like Ngoc, she is sensitive to the experiences of the generation before her. Her narrative is composed of a palimpsest of images, impres- sions, and memories, many of which are not her own. Vietnam consists of fragments of her parents' memory, stories that she gleaned from overheard conversations, and the vivid imprint of photographs and television footage of the war. ([note on p.24) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=23)


 


Memory serves three different functions here. The first is to remember and commemorate a country that ceased to exist in 1975.

The second is to justify the women's deci- sion to join the exodus from their country.

The third is to anchor the women firmly in their new lives and adopted homes, "a past reconstructed through the animating vision of nostalgia can serve as a creative inspiration and possible emulation within thepresent" (2003:83) ([note on p.25) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=24)


 


narratives of older generation colored by grief and longing since their formative years were spent in VN. Younger women who left before formative years are also colored in similar ways, but of postwar years and memories of difficulties in AUS. Even those w/ "no personal memory of VN remain responsive to the experience of their parents and the collective experience of the diaspora." ([note on p.27) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=26)


 


Ngoc hasn't gone back but may return for the sake of her children so they can "discover their roots"

. Ngoc was ten years old when she became a refugee.Although her family survived the sea journey, she is marked by the memory of that voyage. Her reluctance to return is not only shaped by her awareness of the sacrifices made by so many soldiers for the preservation of South Vietnam, but by her recollection of postwarprivations and injustices, and the knowledge that many were less fortunate than her family. She does not discount ever going back andimagines that she will do so one day for the sake of her children, so that they can "discover their roots. ([note on p.27) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=26)


 


great quote to use in my own research.

I feel that some day I will have to bring my children back to Vietnam to their roots to know their ancestors, and for them to get a feel of the country where their parents were brought up. I think it would be essential for me to do that, but I'm very reluctant to do any such thing at this stage, because I havevery strong feelings about going back and I've heard all these horrible stories about all the bribery that you need to do at the airport, and the corruption that's rife in Vietnam. Frankly I'mvery anxious, I feel like I'd be a foreigner going back to my own country.Thy, ([note on p.27) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=26)


 


"postmemory" 

Thy, for her part, has no memory of either Vietnam or the exodus, but she bears the imprint of the previous generation's trauma. The kalei-doscope of visual and sensory impressions that she has of Vietnam represents what Hirsch and Spitzer, writing about the children of Jewish Holocaust survivors, refer to as a "postmemory, a secondary, belated memory mediated by stories, images and behaviors among which [they] grew up, but which never added up to a complete or linear tale" (2003:85) ([note on p.28) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/4VERL4XP?page=27)


 

