---
title: "2020.Lipman-In Camps Vietnamese Refugees"
---
[[lipmanCampsVietnameseRefugees2020]]

# Extracted Annotations (2021-12-17)

 some classified as refugee when they're not. refugee/migrant binary narrative. 

South Vietnamese Navy who had been at sea when Saigon fell and whose ships simply never returned to port. Their protests unnerved U.S. officials, who had not anticipated that any Vietnamese would want to return to communist-controlled Vietnam. There ([note on p.10) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=10)



[](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=10) After 1975, close to 800,000 individuals left Vietnam by boat, survived,and sought refuge in camps in Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Hong Kong.2 ([note on p.13) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=13)



[](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=13) who is a refugee and who determines this status? 

This book probes questions that remain all too relevant today: Who is arefugee? Who determines this status? And how do the experiences of refu- gees resonate at the highest political levels and in local communities that are often imagined to be in the most peripheral of places? Unquestionably, inter- national power dynamics shape refugee policy, but so too do specific regional pressures on first-asylum territories and activism within the camps them- selves. This book argues that in order to understand refugee politics, one must look at the camps, the places that hosted them, and the people inside. ([note on p.13) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=13)



[](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=13) The 1989 Comprehensive Plan of Action (CPA) embraced the central tenets of Hong Kong’s goals of screening and repatriation. With the CPA’s implementa- tion, Vietnamese would be asylum seekers, rather than de facto refugees. More than seventy countries signed the agreement in Geneva in June 1989. First, it protected the standard of first asylum. All the original 1979 signatories agreed that they would not push off boats, but would allow migrants to land and be screened. Second, the CPA established a practice of asylum screening whereby immigration officers would interview Vietnamese and determine whether or not they met the threshold for refugee status. If so, they would be “screened in,” and the UNHCR guaranteed them resettlement in a third country. If not, they would be “screened out.” ([note on p.162) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=162)



[](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=162) shared humanitarian interests btwn vn and US led to "normalization" ([note on p.163) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QX8KVHYE?page=163)



