---
title: "Homing An Affective Topography of Ethnic Korean Return Migration (Ji-Yeon O. Jo)"
tags: 
- #returnmigration  
---


# Annotation Summary of Homing An Affective Topography of Ethnic Korean Return Migration (Ji-Yeon O. Jo)
#### Introduction Legacy Migration, Transborder Belongings,and Korean Peoplehood
 *Highlight [2]:* As of 2013, there were an estimated 704,536 diaspora Koreans with foreign citizenship residing in South Korea, a 17 percent increase from the previous year. 1
 *and Note [2]:* 17% increase in return migration to south korea in 2013 compared to previous year.

 *Highlight [2]:* Though each of the stories given here is as unique as Inga’s, the diaspora and return migration experiences of these migrants have cumulatively been shaped by colonial and diaspora history, by the ethnic policies of the nation-states in which they have settled, by postcolonial and Cold War geopolitics, and by the pervasive influence of economic and cultural globalization. All these factors must be taken into account to understand why a person like Inga would decide to spend her retirement years in South Korea despite having lived in diaspora for her entire life. What does it mean to live life as an ethnic Korean in diaspora and as a diaspora Korean in South Korea?
 *and Note [2]:* #wording 
return migration experiences shaped by colonial and diasporic ethnic policies of nation-states they’ve settled, by postcolonial and cold war geopolitics, and economic and cultural globalization.

research questions 

 *Highlight [2]:* The majority of diaspora Koreans who have migrated to South Korea are Korean Chinese, with Korean Americans coming in a distant second. When taken together, diaspora Koreans from the former Soviet Bloc comprise the third-largest diaspora Korean group in South Korea. According to data based
 *and Note [2]:* majority of return migrants are korean chinese

#statistics of other return migrants to korea

 *Highlight [3]:* Introduction 3 on individual country of origin, diaspora Koreans from Uzbekistan, Russia, and Kazakhstan rank as the third-, fifth-, and eighth-largest groups, respectively. 3A growing number of Korean Russians from Sakhalin (over four thousand) have also migrated to South Korea through the repatriation program. The remaining return migrants come from many different countries worldwide, including Japan, Canada, Australia, Germany, and Brazil—a glimpse of the diversity of the Korean diasporas.4

 *Highlight [3]:* Although first-generation returnees may experience some discomfort or at least a feeling of “foreignness” when they move back to Korea after having lived in diaspora for an extended period, the later generations face much greater challenges, as they must contend with greater degrees of cultural and linguistic difference (Joo 2007; Kibria 2002; N. Kim 2009; C. Song 2009; Tsuda 2009).
 *and Note [3]:* #tsuda #song #kibria
later generations face greater challenges with language and cultural difference

 *Highlight [5]:* In order to explore my interlocutors’ understanding of Korean peoplehood and how it shaped their sense of belonging in diaspora and in South Korea, I started this study with a series of questions. In what ways have latergeneration diaspora Koreans imagined Korea? How have they understood what it means to be an ethnic Korean in their diasporas? What prompted their desire to move to South Korea, and their decisions to do so? How has their lived experience in South Korea reaffirmed or reshaped the images and expectations that they formed in diaspora? How has return migration reconfigured and reorganized their everyday lives, and how have they made sense of and acted on those changes? In particular, I investigate how ethnic return migration has influenced their sense of national, familial, and linguistic belongings, and how their sense of belonging has affected their ideas of the Korean peoplehood.
 *and Note [5]:* #researchquestions

 *Highlight [5]:* In studies of contemporary transnational migration, the trajectories of migrant mobility not only reveal migration patterns but also illuminate specific geopolitical and economic relations between sending and receiving countries. A migration trajectory from “periphery” to “center,” for example, has been perpetuated by enduring imperial and colonial legacies in the postcolonial era (Espiritu 2003; Gilroy 1993; Hall 1991, 2000, 2001; N. Kim 2008).
 *and Note [5]:* a trend of migration from “periphery” to “center” 

#hall #gilroy #espiritu

 *Highlight [6]:* While “return” can function as a powerful metaphor for the affective connection that diasporans experience with regard to their ancestral homeland and can serve to signify the migration trajectory of diaspora Koreans, the notion is also inflected by geopolitical and generational intricacies. Takeyuki Tsuda (2009, 1) points to two kinds of returning: single-generation return migration, which involves first-generation diasporans, and ethnic return migration, which involves later-generation diasporans migrating to the ancestral homeland. The concept of return applies easily in the first case, but less so in the second. The word “return” denotes “to go or come back, as to a former place, position, or state” and therefore does not adequately signify the specificities of the migration trajectory as taken by later-generation diaspora Koreans, who have neither left nor lived in their ancestral homeland and whose understanding of and attachment to Korea has therefore been produced primarily through transgenerational sharing of images and narratives.
 *and Note [6]:* [[tsuda]]’s idea of “single-generation return” which involved first-gen return.

“ethnic return migration” about later-generation diasporans. 

idea of “return” is not easy for subsequent generations as they did not come from nor live in ancestral homeland.

 *Highlight [6]:* Long and Oxfeld define “return” and “return migration” in a different way. “Return” connotes double or multiple crossings of borders: it can imply short visits, permanent repatriation, circular movements between diaspora and country of origin, or simply the symbolic sense of connecting with one’s ancestral homeland. “Return migration” more specifically denotes either “a lengthy period of residence or a long-term project of resettlement in the reconstructed homeland.” In both return and return-migration contexts, the movement of
 *and Note [6]:* [[Long and Oxfeld]] definition of “return” and “return migration”. 

- [[009.Themes/return vs return migration]] “return” as double or multiple crossings of borders: can be short visit, permanent repatriation, circular movements between diaspora and country of origin, or symbolic sense of connecting with ancestral homeland

- [[009.Themes/return vs return migration]] “return migration” as either long period of residence or long-term project of resettlement

 *Highlight [7]:* Introduction 7 return can be well-planned or spontaneous, voluntary or coerced, welcomed or unwelcomed. Indeed, the concept of return encompasses a range of temporal, spatial, legal, and personal meanings, all of which can be important determinants for how well returnees adjust to the new or renewed homeland or for how they feel “home” (Long and Oxfeld 2004, 4).10

 *Highlight [7]:* Based on Tsuda’s attention to generational differences and Long and Oxfeld’s articulation of differences in the durations and patterns of return, I utilize the term “legacy migration” to denote the trajectory of spatial mobility that involves migration to and long-term residence or permanent settlement in one’s ancestral homeland as undertaken specifically by later-generation diasporans, whose premigration relationships with the ancestral homeland depend not on firsthand experience but on secondhand reporting: family conversations, communal teachings, public representations, popular media representations, and the like. The term “legacy migration” serves to clarify the difference between first- and later-generation return migration and between short-term visits and long-term settlement in the ancestral homeland, and it differentiates legacy migrants from other transnational migrants. Legacy migration can be understood as a subfield of return migration, itself an expanding subfield of transnational migration studies, which investigates migration trajectories to ancestral homelands or to countries of prior residence.
 *and Note [7]:* “legacy migration” as a term author uses to denote subfield of return migration. clarifies difference between first and later generations, short- and long-term migration.

 *Highlight [7]:* I use “homing” as an analytical metaphor to highlight the multiple, often circular border crossings that legacy migrants take—both spatially and affectively circulating between diaspora home and ancestral homeland—and also to temper the definitive connotation of the term “return.” “Homing” as an affective impulse characterizes both return and legacy migration. By “homing,” however, I do not intend to imply that homing is a natural instinct for diasporans. Rather, by tracing the homing trajectory with full recognition of the ambivalent connections diasporans have with the putative ancestral homeland, I have been able to more thoroughly articulate the range of contexts, factors, and mechanisms that influence their mobility. The concept of a homing trajectory, as I apply it here, indicates a lasting process of border crossings that occurs at multiple levels and in many forms. Rather than being a single and defining migratory activity, homing encompasses the affective processes that unfold both before and after actual spatial movement (or movements) across multiple borders, which are constructed, deconstructed, and reconstructed according to the changing milieus of different eras.
 *and Note [7]:* author uses term “homing” to “temper” definitive connotation of “return”. shows the multiple circular border crossings that migrants take both spatial and affective between diasporic and ancestral homelands.

a lasting process of border crossings that occur on multiple levels and forms.

 *Highlight [8]:* Recent studies (N. Kim 2009; C. Song 2009) suggest that many later-generation returnees possess an “imagined” affinity with and nostalgic sentiment for their ancestral homeland—a vicarious sense of attachment to Korea they have developed through the influence of family members and the larger diaspora community. Intensifying this affinity is the assumption among the legacy migrants in these studies that their ethnic affiliation and cultural and linguistic knowledge increase their odds of adjusting to and succeeding in the ancestral homeland, relative to their odds of doing so in any other foreign country (Tsuda 2009).
 *and Note [8]:* later return migrants possess an “imagined affinity” with and nostalgic sentiment for ancestral homeland. influence of family members. 

this is #opposite from my research where some informants experience what [[hirsh]] calls [[postmemory]] and negative accounts from first generation due to traumas of exile. 

[[tsuda]] states that affinity to ancestral homeland is intensified due to their similar cultural and linguistic knowledge. thus odds of adjusting to and succeeding in ancestral homeland are higher, relative to odds of doing so in another foreign country. 

 *Highlight [8]:* A factor that complicates the affective conditioning of “homing” is the existence of two Koreas, which inflects the relationship that many diaspora Koreans have with their homeland. For those whose ancestral hometowns are located in the northern part of the Korean Peninsula—the Democratic Republic of Korea (North Korea)—affective connections to Korea can be especially difficult to sort out. Many of the legacy migrants whose ancestral hometowns are located in North Korea do not consider South Korea their ancestral homeland. Thus, while they may migrate to South Korea, this does not, for them, constitute a return to the homeland, especially given that they are less likely to have remaining family or relatives in South Korea. The war between the two Koreas has technically not ended, as the cease-fire was negotiated through armistice agreement (Cumings 1997), so both Cold War tensions and post–Cold War economic and geopolitical conditions coexist in the
 *and Note [8]:* great #wording on division between north and south korea—something that exists in viet nam as well. [[su]]’s work “no solidarity” echoes the difficulty for folks from north and south to see each other apart from their past ties to communism. 

this is reflected here with diasporans from north korea returning to south where they have no family and war has technically not ended.

 *Highlight [9]:* Introduction 9 awareness of the people and the state of South Korea and of diaspora Koreans. This separated consciousness inevitably complicates the ways in which all diaspora Korean legacy migrants experience belonging.

 *Highlight [9]:* The South Korean government also recognized the value of diaspora Koreans as national resources. Since the mid-1960s, Korean Japanese investment in the Korean economy has provided valuable impetus for South Korea’s economic development, and in efforts to revive the economy after the Asian financial crisis of the late nineties, the South Korean government has actively solicited diaspora Koreans’ financial investment in their ancestral homeland, often specifically by appealing to their affective connection to South Korea. When petitioning diasporans for investment in South Korea, the government is careful to use terms that arouse traditional moral principles, such as chung (loyalty to the nation) and hyo (filial piety)—for example, “motherland,” “fatherland,” and hanminjok (ethnic Koreans), the latter signifying the blood ties between diaspora Koreans and South Koreans. 11Nor are such economic strategies exercised by government institutions alone. In 1993, a nongovernmental organization, the World Federation of Korean Association of Commerce, was established to develop a global network of Korean entrepreneurs, economic institutions, and diaspora Korean organizations; by increasing Korean contributions to the world economy, the federation intended to spur the economic development of the “fatherland” and to improve Korea’s international standing.12
 *and Note [9]:* #thestate #state government actively soliciting diaspora koreans. same as viet state #wording

 *Highlight [16]:* In addition to the territorial border of the nation-state, ethnic return migrants must cross multiple symbolic and intangible borders of culture, society, and language, which act as “complex social institutions marked by tensions between practices of border reinforcement and border crossing” (Mezzadra and Neilson 2013, 3; Vila 2000). These intangible and unwritten social, cultural, and linguistic borders are just as formidable as physical and statutory borders, and they likewise introduce barriers and generate tensions in the lives of legacy migrants.
 *and Note [16]:* symbolic and intangible borders of culture, society, and language. these unwritten borders are just as difficult as physical and statutory borders

 *Highlight [16]:* Thus, multiple borders influence how and where migrants belongthe politics of belonging that transcends and moves beyond nation-state
 *and Note [16]:* borders, both physical and “paper” (legal barriers that make it difficult for migrants to enter, stay, etc). 

these borders complicate migrants’ sense of belonging.

 *Highlight [17]:* 17 Introduction memberships (Brubaker 2015; Smith 2001). The fortification of both “physical walls” (Brown 2014) and “paper walls”—the latter comprising layers of legal documents that control migrant flows (Torpey 1999)—regulates who is allowed to cross the border and who is not. The effects of those borders, controlled by physical and paper walls, permeate the spaces they contain and thus continue to influence migrants’ status, how they live functionally in the host society (which depends on whether they are study abroad students, migrant workers, migrant investors, temporary visitors, etc.), whether settlement is a possibility, and what living arrangements might be available. The proliferation of borders complicates legacy migrants’ sense of belonging, as the relationship “single body–single spatiality” does not apply in contemporary transnational migration contexts, wherein migrants’ social spheres are no longer contained within the nation-state. Thus, the concept “migrant belonging” signifies both membership status, as determined by the host society, and affective belonging, as experienced by the individual legacy migrant in relation to transborder spaces (Fortier 2000; Hall 2000; Hemmings 2005; Ho 2009). Yuval-Davis (2006) identifies three analytical categories of belonging: social locations; identifications and emotional attachments; and ethical and political values. Every individual belongs to multiple and particular social locations such as gender, race, class, nation, language group, age group, kinship group, religious group, and profession, which are constructed by a complex grid of power relations and axes of power difference (200). Social locations imply social borders that bind members who are similarly situated; some of these borders are more permeable (e.g., the divide between upper and lower class), some less so (e.g., the line between races), and they interact differentially to shape the sense and status of belonging of each individual. Moreover, in the context of transnational migration in particular, each nation-state may valorize specific social locations in its own way, with correspondingly unique implications for individual migrant belongings. For example, a South Korean might be highly class and gender conscious at home, but might become more race and language conscious when visiting or migrating to another country. And one’s social location, such as class or education, might change in the context of transnational migration. For example, what it means to be male, with regard to social status and stereotypes, is different in Asia than it is in the West. Thus, belonging in any given social location is neither static nor permanent but shifts according to time and space.
 *and Note [17]:* [[005.Authors/yuval-davis]] identities three categories of belonging:
1. social locations
2. identifications and emotional attachments
3. ethnical and political values

 *Highlight [17]:* Furthermore, due to varying degrees of identification and emotional attachment, those who inhabit the same social location may not assign that
 *and Note [17]:* according to [[005.Authors/yuval-davis]]’s “identification and emotional attachment” in [[categories of belonging]]

even though one may have similar “social location” they may not assign that location the same meaning or import. they may have different connections and attachments too homeland.

 *Highlight [18]:* 18 Introduction location the same meaning or import (Yuval-Davis 2006, 202). A first-generation diasporan’s identification with and emotional attachment to the Korean nation may differ from that of a later-generation diasporan. Though their social locations in the diaspora may be similar, they may have different levels of emotional attachment to the homeland, which can influence the degree of importance they assign to their ethnicity, which can in turn influence their attitude with regard to the other social locations they inhabit (Ho 2009; S-Y. Kim 2014). Thus, belonging is “not just be-ing, but longing” (Bell 1999; Probyn 1996); it is intimately intertwined with how one imagines oneself.

 *Highlight [18]:* Ethical and political values, Yuval-Davis’ third analytical category of belonging, influence how social locations and constructions of individual and collective identities and attachments are valued and judged (Yuval-Davis 2006, 203). At the level of state and society, the valorization of social locations determines migrant membership status and influences the social and political policies that affect migrants. At the level of the individual, the valorization of social locations determines affective belonging and influences self-image. Due to these intersecting processes, belonging can be neither neutral nor natural.
 *and Note [18]:* according to [[005.Authors/yuval-davis]]’s “ethnic and political values” in [[categories of belonging]]

influences how social locations and constructions of individual and collective identities and attachments are valued and judged. 

due to these intersecting processes belonging and neither be neutral nor natural.

 *Highlight [21]:* In chapter 6, I explore how Korean as a heritage language—the language that is perceived as a family and community language of Korean diasporainfluences and is influenced by legacy migrants’ membership status and affective belonging both in diaspora and in South Korea. After tracing the politics and policies that affect the Korean language in diaspora, I incorporate legacy migrants’ narratives about their linguistic experiences in South Korea. Their stories provide an opportunity to illuminate the affective dimension as it relates to the heritage language and challenge us to move beyond proficiencyoriented understandings of language. Especially for ethnic legacy migrants, the language of their everyday lives, the heritage language of their ancestral homeland, the official or mainstream language of their diaspora, and, to some extent, global English can all be deeply intertwined with their personal identities. I therefore scrutinize the affective dimension of language, giving particular attention to the notions of proficiency and authenticity, which often lend certain meaning to and shape migrant relationships with the heritage language during their homing experiences. As I will show, the meaning and value of languages, especially heritage languages, are often interpreted differently by the legacy migrants and by South Korean society.
 *and Note [21]:* chapter 6 about “heritage language” in the diaspora

