---
title: "yuval-davis - 2017 - situated intersectionality"
tags: 
- #yuval-davis #situatedintersectionality #intersectionality 
enableToc: false # do not show a table of contents on this page
---

# Annotation Summary of yuval-davis - 2017 - situated intersectionality.pdf.
 *Highlight [3]:* Fundamental to my approach to situated intersectionality analysis (which I started to develop with Floya Anthias (eg, 1983, 1992) in the early 1980’s, before the term intersectionality was invented by Kimberlé Crenshaw in (1989), is that intersectional analysis should be applied to all people and not just to marginalised and racialised women, with whom the rise of intersectionality theory is historically linked (e.g. Crenshaw, 1989; Hill Collins, 1990; see also Brah & Phoenix, 2004).
 *and Note [3]:* fundamental to [[008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.situated intersectionality]] is that it should apply to all people and not only to marginalized and racialized women.

 *Highlight [4]:* Intersectionality analysis relates to the distribution of power and other resources in society and therefore it constitutes what in sociology is known as stratification theory. Stratification, or, rather, social stratification, relates to the differential hierarchical locations of individuals and groupings of people on society’s grids of power. Intersectionality is the most valid and comprehensive approach to the study of social stratification because it does not reduce the complexity of power constructions into a single social division, usually class, as has been customarily the case in stratification theories. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that I do not see the different social divisions which construct power relations as additive (e.g. in Bryan & al., 1985), cross‐cutting (e.g. Crenshaw, 1989) or interlocking (e.g. Hill Collins, 1990), but rather as mutually constituted, forming the particular nuanced and contested meanings of particular social locations in particular historical moments, within particular social, economic and political contexts in which some social divisions, eg gender, race, ethnicity, citizenship status,ability, have more saliency and effecton particular people and/or society as a whole, than they have in others.
 *and Note [4]:* intersectionality includes sociology concept of [[social stratification]], relating to different hierarchical locations of individuals and groups on society’s grids of power. 

[[intersectionality]] is best approach to study social stratification due to being non-reductionist into a single division, usually class. 

[[005.Authors/yuval-davis]]’s approach is different as it shows that different social divisions construct power as MUTUALLY CONSTITUTED.

 *Highlight [4]:* However, as Floya Anthias and I have always emphasized, although in concrete situations the different social divisions constitute each other, they are irreducible to each other – each of them has a different ontological discourse of particular dynamics of power relations of exclusion and/or exploitation, using a variety of legitimate and illegitimate technologies of inferiorizations, intimidations and sometimes actual violence to achieve this. For example, class relations are constructed around notions of production and consumption; gender – those of sexuality and reproduction; race/ethnicity as constructed by particular phenotypical or cultural boundaries; ability around the notion of ‘the normal’ etc. Social inequalities thus amount to much more than the mere life style ‘distinctions’ of culturalist approaches to stratification (such as Bordieu, REF).
 *and Note [4]:* although different social divisions constitute each other, they are irreducible to each other. they all have different relations of power dynamics. 

 *Highlight [5]:* Situated intersectionality analysis, therefore, in all its facets, is highly sensitive to the geographical, social and temporal locations of the particular individual or collective social actors examined by it, contested, shifting and multiple as they usually are. Therefore, in the intersectionality approach presented here, we also need to highlight the central importance in the analysis of issues of translocality i.e. the ways particular categories of social divisions have different meanings – and often different relative power ‐ in the different spaces in which the analyzed social relations take place; of transcalarity – i.e. the ways different social divisions have often different meanings and power when we examine them in small scale households or neighbourhoods, in particular cities, states, regions and globally; and of transtemporality – i.e. how these meanings and power change historically and even in different points in people’s life cycle (Anthias, 2012; Yuval‐Davis, Wemyss &Cassidy, forthcoming; for a somewhat different but also global intersectionality approaches to the study of inequality see Bose, 2012; Walby, 2007, 2009). All these elements of situated intersectionality analysis are of prime importance when we come to assess the meanings of couture.
 *and Note [5]:* [[intersectionality]] approach must look at and be highly sensitive to geographical, social and temporal locations of individuals and collective actors

[[translocality]] - ways categories of social divisions have different meanings
[[transtemporality]] - ways different social divisions have different meanings and power when examined in small-scale places (households, neighborhoods, cities, stations, regions, global)
[[transcalarity]] - how meanings and power changes historically and even in different points of people’s lives

