---
title: "yuval-davis, wemyss, cassidy - 2019 - Bordering"
tags: 
- #yuval-davis #politicsofbelonging #intersectionality   
- enableToc: false # do not show a table of contents on this page
---

# Annotation Summary of Bordering ( etc.) (z-lib.org).pdf.
#### Introduction
 *Highlight [1]:* Similarly, borders have been moved away from the territory of their state into the territories of other countries: not only are US border checks taking place in Canadian airports and British ones in Eurostar terminals in continental Europe, but consulates in most countries have effectively turned into passport and visa checkpoints. In this way, the deterritorialisation and reterritorialisation of borders have been taking place globally.
 *and Note [1]:* borders moved away from territories (eg. border checks instead of in us to canada and british airports). consulates as passport and visa checkpoints.

 *Highlight [2]:* They also show how bordering has become dependent to a considerable degree on digital and virtual technologies. This is also a central facet of the other, related political bordering discourse, namely the securitisation discourse: the demand that the government should ‘keep our nation safe’ (Andreas, 2003) 2
 *and Note [2]:* borderings as virtual and spatial processes — dynamic, shifting, multi scalar, multilevel — construct, reproduce, and contest borders. 

contribute to local, regional, global political projects of governance and #belonging. 

social cohesion and solidarity. #hegemonic social imaginaries

 *Highlight [3]:* introduction: framing bordering from ‘global terrorism’. Therefore borderings, regarded as spatial and virtual processes – dynamic and shifting, multiscalar and multilevel that construct, reproduce, and contest borders, make a considerable contribution to a variety of local, regional, and global political projects of governance and belonging. They determine individual and collective entitlements and duties as well as social cohesion and solidarity. As such, bordering can be considered a pivotal ‘structure of feeling’ (Williams, 1977) as well as of hegemonic social imaginaries (Taylor, 2004).

 *Highlight [3]:* Thus we argue that, in order to understand contemporary local and global political and social relations, the management of social solidarity and social difference, and the regulation of labour and of the economy at large, we need to analyse the bordering processes and technologies that are used as discourses and practices in different, multiscalar locations.
 *and Note [3]:* to understand contemporary social relations and global political social relations, social difference and solidarity, one must understand bordering processes and technologies. 
#quote

#### Bordering: In-between the political and the sociocultural
 *Highlight [4]:* In consequence, borders need to be seen as constitutive parts of the world rather than as segmenting a pre-given ‘natural’ whole. Importantly, bordering is not only about who moves and who does not, but also about who controls whose movements. In other words, some of the crucial analytical as well as political questions related to bordering concern the understanding of the ‘who’, ‘how’, and ‘why’ of the construction and control of specific borders in specific times and spaces.
 *and Note [4]:* #bordering as a “whole” instead of parts. not about who moves and who does not, but about who controls the movements. 

 *Highlight [5]:* Barth (1998) and others following him have argued that what is crucial in processes of ethnicisation and racialisation is the existence of ethnic (and racial) boundaries rather than that of any specific ‘essence’ around which these boundaries are constructed. Any physical or social signifier can be used to construct the boundaries that differentiate between ‘us’ and ‘them’. State borders are but one of the technologies used to construct and maintain these boundaries. Henk van Houtum and his colleagues (van Houtum and van Naerssen, 2002; van Houtum et al., 2005) have argued that all bordering processes are a combination of ordering and othering. Indeed, as will be shown throughout the book, bordering has a double character, as a political project of governance and as a political project of belonging.
 *and Note [5]:* [[barth[[ (1998) idea that crucial in process of #ethnicisation and #racialization is existence of ethnic and racial boundaries.

bordering process is combination of ordering and othering. 

 *Highlight [7]:* It is important to differentiate between belonging and the politics of belonging (Yuval-Davis, 2011). Belonging relates to emotional (or even ontological) attachment, about feeling ‘at home’, comfortable, and (although feminists who have worked on domestic violence would dispute this) ‘safe’ (Ignatieff, 2001). It is a material and affective space that is shaped by everyday practices and social relations as well as by emotions, memories, and imaginaries (Blunt, 2005: 506). This construction of belonging as being at home is also linked to views on who has a right to share the home and who does not belong there, that is, views on bordering. As we shall see later on, technologies of everyday bordering and securitisation that are supposedly aimed at making people feel safe by keeping out those who do not belong can end up undermining these feelings of safety and raising instead a sense of precarity. Belonging, especially in terms of self-identification, tends to be naturalised (Fenster, 2004). It becomes articulated, formally structured, and politicised only when it is perceived to be under threat in some way. The politics of belonging comprises specific political projects aimed at constructing a sense of belonging to particular collectivities, which are themselves being assembled through these projects and placed within specified boundaries. For example, in specific nationalist political projects of belonging, people of colour or 7
 *and Note [7]:* [[belonging vs politics of belonging]] 

#belonging as emotional attachment, feeling of home, comfort, and “safe”. material and affective space space shaped by everyday practices and social relations and emotions, memories, and imaginaries. 

#politicsofbelonging politics of belonging are political projects aimed at constructing sense of belonging. #vietkieu #kieubao #thestate #good

 *Highlight [8]:* bordering foreign-born persons can or cannot be part of the nation. Other kinds of projects decide whether people who support, say, the right to abortion can be part of a particular religious community, and so on. As Antonsich (2010) points out, however, these boundaries are often spatial and relate to a specific locality or territoriality and not just to constructions of social collectivities, which brings us back to issues of bordering. In addition, as Back and Sinha (2018) emphasise (and see also Andersson, 2014), when considering issues of belonging we need to allow for the importance of the temporal dimension. These authors argue that we cannot understand migration without an appreciation of the experience of time in an unfolding life. The debate about belonging is often coded so as to refer to those seen to ‘really belong’ because they and their kin have put ‘time into’ society. Migrants, by contrast, are viewed as itinerant, passing through. Facing the challenge of global reflexivity (Beck, 2007) expressed by quickly shifting markets, social relations, and political conditions, many non-mobile residents find it rational to claim that they really belong – to a social community, to a network of friends (including social media; see Metykova 2010), or to a particular place. However, there is a considerable gap between such claims and actual projects of ‘making belonging come true’. This is particularly true when we relate to the most common political project of belonging, which is that of state citizenship. As Sahlins (1989: 271) claims, borders are ‘privileged sites for the articulations of national distinctions’ and, hence, of national belonging. While regional, ethnic, racial, and religious differences might be crucial signifiers of belonging, when people travel to other countries they are usually identified, both formally and informally, through their nationality or state citizenship. Or at least this tended to be the situation until the global war on terrorism and the recent refugee crisis, when many, especially among those of Muslim background, started to be identified everywhere through their presumed religious affiliation, although at the moment of writing this identification is a subject of political campaigning but in most countries is not (yet?) embedded in law. However, an ‘undesirable’ racial or religious belonging is not as important in everyday borderings as the construction of people as non-belonging. Following Arendt (1943), Agamben (1998) has pointed out that refugees (or, more accurately, those who are seeking refuge but do not have the legal status of refugee) are constructed around a major paradox: ‘that precisely the figure that should have incarnated the 8

#### Bordering and neoliberal globalisation
 *Highlight [9]:* introduction: framing bordering rights of man par excellence, the refugee[,] constitutes instead the radical crisis of the concept’ (Agamben, 1995: 116). Agamben claims that, ‘in the nation-state system, the so-called sacred and inalienable rights of man prove to be completely unprotected at the very moment it is no longer possible to characterise them as rights of citizens of a state’ (1998: 2). He sees refugees as a modern embodiment of ‘bare life’ that in the ancien régime belonged to God and in the classical world was clearly distinct (as zoē) from political life (bios), which in the modern world relates to a person’s nationality. ‘By breaking up the identity between man and citizen, between nativity and nationality, the refugee throws into crisis the original fiction of sovereignty’ (Agamben, 1995: 177). Given the recent refugee crisis and the fact that thousands of refuge seekers have been allowed to drown in the Mediterranean, let alone die in many other locations on the globe (such as in the Mexican desert) on their way to a secure haven, Agamben’s prophetic words are a powerful vindication of the ways in which political projects of governance affect political projects of belonging. However, as Bousfield (2005), Zembylas (2010), and Yuval-Davis (2011) point out in somewhat different ways, one should not equate being deprived of legal status and civil rights to lacking subjectivity as well as agency to resist. Nor should we assume that being an outsider with no rights of citizenship means that those who seek refuge do not have other attachments and forms of belonging, or other political projects of (self-)governance. American Latino/a researchers discuss empowering identities and cultural performances by (postcolonial) migrants as ‘border performantics’ (Aldama et al., 2012; see also Gonzales and Sigona, 2017). The bordering scape of the ‘Jungle’ near Calais discussed in chapter 5 will illustrate this claim.

 *Highlight [11]:* Globalisation, which was facilitated by the microchip revolution, is not, then, identical to neoliberalism but has become one of its main tools, facilitating mass movements of goods, finances, and people and destabilising local, regional, and global political and social relations.
 *and Note [11]:* #globalization as facilitated by microchip revolution facilitating mass movement of goods, finances, and people. destabilizing local, regional, and global political and social relations. 

 *Highlight [11]:* In this context of neoliberal globalisation, particular places, territories, and scales have an advantage over others for capitalist accumulation, and certain cities and city regions have a privileged position in this spatially differentiated global order; positioning is therefore relational (Massey 1994; Sheppard 2002). The rise of what is called the economy of flows (Lash and Urry, 1994) has been highly uneven in terms of benefits. While global elites have been rapidly incorporated into a world community, others have found themselves included under much less favourable, even exploitative conditions; some places and people have been excluded from these developments or completely marginalised. As we explore further in the book, economic changes resulting from neoliberal reforms cannot be simply summarised as ‘decline’ or ‘advantage’; the situation is far more complicated. While some places are devolving into economically marginal areas or ‘grey zones’ (Yiftachel, 2009; 2011), possibilities for the development of new connective social and economic activity may still exist. We assume – as does Gough (2002) with respect to the contemporary city – that neoliberal globalisation creates not only fragmentation but also opportunities for new forms of socialisation.
 *and Note [11]:* #neoliberal #globalization prioritizes some countries, places, people (global elites) over others. while others experience “less favorable, even exploitative conditions”. #quote

 *Highlight [11]:* Increasing evidence indicates that globalisation processes are not homogeneous in their effects, but diverse and context specific, as 11
 *and Note [11]:* #globalization process not homogeneous. diverse and shifts depending on need. #myresearch #introduction about overseas vietnamese #overseasviets [[viet kieu]] coming in and [[outward migration]]  of #local viets

 *Highlight [12]:* bordering well as often ambiguous, contradictory, unstable, and limited in their impact (Kingfisher and Maskovsky, 2008; Ward and England, 2007). As a result, scholars have shown a growing concern to explore ‘actually existing neoliberalism’ (Brenner and Theodore, 2002). Places and regions are constantly vying for ways to engage in economic activities and to connect with, even manipulate or subvert, centres of power. In almost all cases, inhabitants are not just passive receivers, as the seemingly marginalised both act on and transform this global complex (Nagar et al., 2002: 265; Lindner, 2007; Woods, 2007). These developments – and the different degrees of access gained around them by different populations and segments of populations – have been crucial in shaping and structuring some of the central characteristics of contemporary neoliberal globalisation. Bordering processes have been affected by these developments in several ways, all major and all different, and have themselves caused, in turn, some significant social, economic, and political effects. First, the time–space compression associated with globalisation has made physical and virtual mobility and connectivity much easier (Urry, 2007). This has resulted in a dramatic rise in the volume of global border crossers. Overall, the rise in cross-border mobilities of not just people but goods, services, and capital is often framed as unprecedented (O’Byrne, 2001). At the same time, these developments have also facilitated the installation of sophisticated systems of surveillance both at physical border zones and everywhere else, in and outside state territories, via satellites and other virtual and digital means (Broeders, 2007). Secondly, neoliberal globalisation, like previous imperial globalisations but probably even more so because of the mobility and communication technological developments, has made the global economy much more interdependent and at the same time diversified. The expansion of global capitalism can be characterised by the flexibility of labour (e.g. part-time or contracted work, which is much less protected in terms of labour conditions and workers’ rights) and of labour markets, as well as by the creation of new markets, and new ways of organising production and of arranging and coordinating the international financial system (Harvey, 1989: 147–72). In this neoliberal restructuring of capitalism, the role of the state is no longer that of a basic unit for the accumulation of capital, trade, and investment—which now take place transnationally. As Mezzadra and Neilson (2012) point out, this required a proliferation of bordering to operate as labour regulators. As these 12

 *Highlight [13]:* introduction: framing bordering and other scholars argue (see e.g. Brambilla et al., 2015), global neoliberalism relies on complex and shifting flows of heterogeneous labour force and differential rates of pay for different kinds of labour in different parts of the world, where various bordering processes are vital as regulatory mechanisms. Moreover, while neoliberal companies depend on global mobility, there is a huge disparity, although also degrees of mutual dependency, between different kinds of labour that are filled in by people of usually different genders, education, and origin and who are subject to differential regimes of bordering permeability.

 *Highlight [13]:* This creates a system of transnational stratifications constructed through people’s accessibility to different kinds of passports and visas (to be discussed in chapter 2); and these different kinds dictate cross-border mobility, transforming borders into a virtual computer firewall (Rumford, 2006). Mezzadra and Neilson use the examples of mutual dependence among careworkers and global finance workers to illustrate this point; but, as will be seen in the bordering scapes presented in chapters 3–5, a variety of participants depend on different bordering encounters, and this dependence often cuts across not only the national–transnational, the skilled–unskilled, or the public–private, but also the legal and the nefarious.
 *and Note [13]:* [[transnational stratifications]] constructed through accessibility to different kind of passports and visas. borders as “virtual firewall”. #virtualfirewall

 *Highlight [13]:* global economic interdependence under neoliberalism has increased and polarised social and economic inequalities both globally, between the North and the South, and within each society. The capabilities required for globalisation have developed within the context of (western) nation-states and reached tipping points in which they were transformed by and became part of the new assemblage of the global economic and political order (Sassen, 2006). Globalisation reshaped and expanded capitalism, which is centred on surplus accumulation. The growth of transworld spaces has encouraged major extensions of capitalist production, including in areas of information, communications, and finance biotechnology. Notable shifts occurred in the ways in which processes of surplus accumulation operate – for example offshore arrangements and transworld corporate alliances – towards what Sassen calls ‘hypercapitalism’. Hypercapitalism – or neoliberalism – is, however, driven by the same impulses that drove nineteenth-century imperial capitalism and found new fields for the ‘primitive accumulation of capital’ through the appropriation of capital and goods from the public sector – spectacularly so in the postcommunist countries, but also in the ‘developing’ (or industrialising) world and in the West, thanks to the spreading control 13
 *and Note [13]:* global economic interdependence under #hypercapitalism, or #neoliberalism, as polarizing north and south, in #postcommunist countries and unable to be controlled by #thestate.

 *Highlight [14]:* bordering of neoliberal market norms in more and more sectors of the state (Massey, 1995). This state of affairs has created at least three different social processes with profound effects on contemporary bordering scapes. It created a global economic elite, executives and directors of multinational companies in which, significantly, there is also a growing minority of women and of people from the Global South, especially from what is known as the ‘tiger economies’ (Poon, 1996). This economic elite is constantly on the move, establishing its operations in different countries according to the suitability of the different locations in terms of infrastructure, labour force, and tax regimes. Neoliberal globalisation has also created larger and larger territories – mostly, but not exclusively in the South – where the local economies were destroyed and no alternative systems have been created. As a result, there is a growing number of people, especially young men, who are desperate to migrate to areas of economic growth and are prepared to face any hardships for it, but on arrival have no skills to offer, except casual labour under the living wage (Triandafyllidou, 2016). These are the people whom Kofi Annan, former UN secretary general, has branded ‘people on the move’. Although the UN has recently established an interagency committee on migration, there is no international legislation that compels nation-states to allow them entrance to their territories, as in the case of refugees and asylum seekers fleeing from zones of armed conflict and from governments’ oppression; and the more pressure is created by these people as they try to migrate in growing waves, the more punitive the bordering regimes developed by different states become (Fekete, 2009). To a large extent, the growing number of people in ‘limbo-scapes’ and ‘grey zones’ (which will be discussed in chapter 5) is an outcome of this process. The humanitarian discourse that is often used when camps are formally established by the UN, international aid organisations, and NGOs, is often contradicted by draconian measures taken by different states and regions to block migrants from entry. Such measures range from razor wire through detention camps in deserts and islands to mass expulsions to a third country. Another way in which neoliberal globalisation has affected bordering is via its effects on states’ governability. As discussed in chapter 2, neoliberal globalisation emerged during a period of global optimism, after the fall of the Soviet Union and the supposed victory of democracy and freedom (the ‘end of history’ to quote Fukuyama, 1992), in a cosmopolitan world in which social, national, and state 14

 *Highlight [15]:* introduction: framing bordering borders were on the wane and the state as ‘container of power’ (Giddens, 1985; Taylor, 2004) was going to be over. States were seen as withering away, becoming weaker and less able to impose their will on other social, economic, and political carriers of power.

 *Highlight [17]:* In different and new contexts, citizens are required to become untrained and unpaid border guards, and more of us are falling under suspicion as illegitimate border crossers. Therefore the relationship between bordering as a top-down political project and everyday processes of ‘othering’ or constructing ‘us’ and ‘them’ – which is in any case linked to political boundary-making – is also intensifying. This tendency, which has been developing since before 9/11, is now institutionalised and legalised in many states. This happened in recent years, especially after the refugee crisis of 2015. More material and legal walls have been erected between and within states to prevent ‘undesirable’ migrants from entering or staying in this or that country. Promises to this effect, which have been central to the electoral success of Trump in the United States, Orbán in Hungary, and others elsewhere, signal the transition, in political discourse, from what Nancy Fraser (2017) calls ‘progressive neoliberalism’ which has used the discourse of human rights, at least rhetorically – to outright exclusionary nationalist discourse.
 *and Note [17]:* citizens required to become untrained and unpaid border guards and more people are seen as suspicious border crossers. 

 *Highlight [17]:* n the United Kingdom, through the 2014 and 2016 Immigration Acts (as we detail in chapter 4), landlords, employers, teachers, and doctors are responsible for verifying that their tenants, employees, students, and patients are legally in the country and, if they fail, 17
 *and Note [17]:* in UK teachers, doctors, landlords, under 2014 and 2016 immigration acts, have become border guards. 

#### From borders to bordering: The processual turn
 *Highlight [18]:* bordering they may be fined or even go to prison, unlike those who are trained and paid to do this job. In this way, far from supporting a multicultural society of convivial diversity, this technology of control breeds suspicion, fear, and boundaries sensitisation both among those who belong and among those who do not. Brexit only enhances this sense of differentiation and hierarchisation among people and has become a model for right-wing autochthonic movements throughout Europe. Similar trends are evident in the Global North (e.g. the United States) and in the Global South (e.g. India). Thus neoliberal globalisation, which seemed to many to facilitate a cosmopolitan ‘borderless’ world, has used bordering in its global regulatory work, by cooperating with and exploiting, in differential and hierarchical ways, different population groupings, states, and spaces across the globe. However, as Alpa Parmar (2018) has observed, contemporary borderings should not be seen as introducing new divisive imaginaries. Rather she views borders across western liberal democracies as mirrors that reflect, deflect, and obscure the image of western democracies, their attitudes to race, and their emotions about racial others. One needs at the same time to analyse the transformative function of borders in conjunction with their aim to preserve, all across the world, those local and global hierarchies, both racial and colonial, that govern mobility for some but not for others. In the next chapter we present an overview of the main historical developments that have brought bordering to the centre of contemporary global political discourse as it is today. However, before turning to this task (and to the more detailed ethnographic borderscaping cases of the following chapters, which will illustrate the main features of contemporary bordering), we need to say a word about the methodological and epistemological framework of our analysis. From borders to bordering: The processual turn The outsourcing of borders (Yuval-Davis et al., 2016) has been part of the dynamics of contemporary mobile borders, which involve processes of debordering and rebordering (Newman and Paasi, 1998; Popescu, 2012; Szary and Giraut, 2015), in other words the deterritorialisation of borders from fixed border zones and their relocation in a multiplicity of spaces spread throughout civil society – especially in urban settings, which have become official and unofficial border checkpoints (Balibar, 2004; Vaughan-Williams, 2008). Bordering 18

 *Highlight [19]:* introduction: framing bordering takes place inside and outside, as well as along the official borders of the state. In school textbooks as well as on official maps and globes, state borders are marked as fixed linear contours that are usually recognised by international law and in international relations as marking the official edges of the territory or space over which one single state has control – a naturalised ‘homeland’. This hegemonic imaginary (Bürkner, 2018; Jessop, 2013b), however, covers political, social, cultural, and economic realities that are much more complex and less stable than official discourses would want us to believe and reflect global as well as regional and national power relations.

 *Highlight [21]:* Cultural studies scholars who studied borderlands – especially the one between the United States and Mexico (e.g. Anzaldúa, 1987; Rosaldo, 1997) – pointed out an important cultural characteristic of the people who inhabit such spaces. This is cultural hybridisation, a feature that many have seen as reflecting more general cultural developments in postmodern times (Bhabha, 2015 [1994]; Lavie and Swedenburg, 1996). 21
 *and Note [21]:* folks living in #borderlands are unable to create a mid-range life project due to their suspended and insecure place in the “grey zone”

 *Highlight [22]:* bordering These processes of hybridisation, as well as all cultural, political, and economic cross-border activities, take place in a global and regional context in which power relations between two neighbouring states and among the borderland people on the two sides of the border are not symmetrical and generate a variety of personal, political, and economic conflicts and resistance. In discussing the emergence of hybrid communities such as the ‘new Mestiza’, for example, Anzaldúa (1987: 19) rightly emphasises that such borderlands are abundant with the ‘hatred, anger and exploitation [that] are the prominent features of this landscape’. The spread of a hybrid border culture in the population as a whole is a phenomenon triggered by, but not confined to, cross-border migrations and echoes the more general need to theorise bordering processes in a relational way. Sassen calls it an ‘analytic borderland’: ‘A heuristic device that allows one to take what is commonly represented as a line separating two differences, typically seen as mutually exclusive, into a conceptual field – a third entity – that requires its own empirical specification and theorization’ (Sassen, 2006: 379). As will be discussed in more detail in chapter 5, it is important to observe, as part of this overall change, what happens to border zones that become ‘post-borderlands’ – communities that continue to depend on borders for their symbolic and territorial identities yet have lost their political and economic raison d’être as gatekeepers in particular bordering zones. Given their character, post-borderlands are specific bordering scapes that emerge as just one of the ‘grey zones’ typical of neoliberal globalisation. There is a complex – or even paradoxical – relationship between the notion of borders and the notion of migration. On the one hand, migrants and immigrants are embodiments of the permeability of borders, of the multicultural, cosmopolitan nature of contemporary society, especially in metropolitan societies. On the other hand, as discussed above, more and more border work is aimed at blocking migrants – or rather certain kinds of migrants, who are deemed to be dangerous, ‘undesirable’, or just redundant to the country’s economic needs – from crossing a border and becoming members of the society on the other side. This is the bordering ‘firewall’ in action; we will take a closer look at it in chapter 3. At the same time, whereas business and professional elites are able to move across the globe with growing ease and frequency thanks to technological and political developments – the ‘frequent flyers’ club, to use Calhoun’s (2003a) expression – millions of other people, most of them from the Global South, who want to cross borders are blocked from doing 22

 *Highlight [23]:* introduction: framing bordering so. As will be discussed in chapter 5, it is for this reason that more and more migrants join the ranks of those suspended in in-between ‘limbo spaces’ – another type of grey zone produced by neoliberal globalisation – either before or after they cross the borders. Thus more and more would-be migrants, instead of being border crossers, become an embodiment of the border itself (Dona, 2015). In the grey zones they inhabit it is hardly possible to plan and build any life project, even a medium-range one (Edkins, 2000; Manjikian, 2010; Hyndman and Giles, 2011, 2016).

 *Highlight [23]:* While the disenchantment of dislocated traditional working-class citizens in post-borderlands of the North (Cassidy et al. 2018a) is largely focused on their hope that control of borders and immigration will solve their systemic crises, migrants are increasingly ‘stuck’ in the in-between in their everyday lives, and grey zones multiply, reaching into more and more spaces in the Global South and North. When we discuss migrants in limbo spaces, and the grey zones within and outside state territories, the need arises to examine again the notion of citizenship and its relation to both human and civil rights.
 *and Note [23]:* #quote on disenchantment that irregular migrants face in the #grayzone or stuck in the in-between in their everyday lives. 

 *Highlight [23]:* Borders and boundaries, then, should not be viewed just as an application of top-down macro social and state policies; they are present in everyday discourses and in the practices of different social agents, from state functionaries to the media and all other members of society (Wemyss et al., 2018; Wemyss and Cassidy, 2017; YuvalDavis et al., 2018; Yuval-Davis, Varjú et al., 2017). Importantly, we need to understand that these everyday bordering processes are not just national but are global processes, as they ‘enable the channelling of (global) flows and provide coordinates within which flows can be joined or segmented, connected or disconnected’ (Mezzadra and Neilson 2012: 59).
 *and Note [23]:* borders and boundaries as present in everyday discourses. not just national but global processes.

#### Everyday intersectional bordering
 *Highlight [24]:* While Sarah Pink (2012: 143) argues that the everyday is ‘at the centre of human existence, the essence of who we are and our 24
 *and Note [24]:* #quote on constructed aspect of identity and location are discourses and imaginaries of political projects that are interwoven into every day lives. 

 *Highlight [25]:* introduction: framing bordering location in the world’, we would argue that the definitions of who we are and what our location in the world is are, both, constructed by discourses and imaginaries of particular bordering political projects of governance and belonging that are affected by the situated positionings, identifications, and normative value systems of the specific social agents that take part in this ‘everyday’ social dynamics. This is especially true of the ways in which discourses and practices of bordering are interwoven into the everyday lives of contemporary people, particularly in metropolitan cities (Jones and Johnson, 2014; Yuval-Davis et al., 2018).

 *Highlight [25]:* It is not possible to carry out ‘an objective’ analysis of any social situations of ‘the everyday’. Rather any epistemological attempt ‘to approach the truth’ (Collins, 1990) necessitates a dialogical process that should encompass the differently situated gazes, the knowledge, and the imagination of the social actors involved. Such an approach differs both from positivist approaches, which assume one ‘objective’ truth (usually determined by the researcher), and from relativist approaches, which assume a different and autonomous truth for each different social positioning. To achieve this dialogical process, we 25
 *and Note [25]:* #methodology [[005.Authors/yuval-davis]]’s dialogical approach [[008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.situated intersectionality]]. not #positivist = objective truth. nor #relativist = assumes different and autonomous truth for each different social position

 *Highlight [26]:* bordering have used a specific methodology of intersectionality, which YuvalDavis (2015a) calls ‘situated intersectionality’ in order to differentiate it from other intersectionality approaches.

 *Highlight [26]:* As a theoretical approach to the study of social inequality, intersectionality can be described as a development of feminist standpoint theory, which claims, in somewhat different ways, that it is vital to account for the social positioning of the social agent – the researcher or the researched – and to challenge ‘the god-trick of seeing everything from nowhere’ (Haraway 1991: 189) as a cover and a legitimisation of a hegemonic masculinist ‘positivistic’ positioning. Situated gaze, situated knowledge, and situated imagination (Stoetzler and YuvalDavis, 2002) construct differently the ways in which we see the world. At the same time, it is important to remember that people with the same social positionings would develop different identifications and emotional attachments, as well as different normative values, and all this would affect the situated gazes of particular social actors at any particular moment.
 *and Note [26]:* [[intersectionality]] #theoreticalapproach from #feminist standpoint theory stating that one must account for social position of the social agent = people within same social positionings would develop different identifications and emotional attachments, normative values. #quote

 *Highlight [26]:* While much of this development is linked to black feminist politics (Brah and Phoenix, 2004), we argue that our analytical and political approach to situated intersectionality should be applied to all people of all times and spaces. Only in this way can we avoid the risk of exceptionalism, which would reinforce the view of marginalised and racialised women as ‘a problem’ and, with that, also the practice of their surveillance.
 *and Note [26]:* not only tied to [[black feminism]] but can be applied to all people to avoid exceptionalism. 

 *Highlight [26]:* Intersectionality analysis relates to the distribution of power and other resources in society and does not reduce the complexity of power constructions to a single social division – as has been prevalent, for instance, in sociological stratification theories, which privilege only class divisions. Situated intersectionality views different social divisions as discourses and practices that are ontologically different and irreducible to one another but that, in any concrete situation, are mutually constituted and shaped. They form the particular, nuanced, and contested meanings of particular social locations in particular 26
 *and Note [26]:* #intersectionality analysis as connected to power which does not reduce complexity of power constructions to a single social division.

 *Highlight [27]:* introduction: framing bordering historical moments and within particular social, economic, and political contexts, in which some social divisions have more saliency and effect than others.

 *Highlight [27]:* By analysing various individual perspectives on these internal bordering processes, we are able to see how the people involved construct and reconstruct the border, as well as their own identities and claims of belonging, through the creation of sociocultural, political, and geographical distinctions.
 *and Note [27]:* #quote on analysis of individual perspectives to see identity and belonging through creation of #sociocultural, #political, and #geographical distinctions. 

#### Outline of the book
 *Highlight [28]:* It examines the history of border-crossing documentation forms such as passports and visas and provides an overview of the main developments and shifts in bordering matters during the last century.
 *and Note [28]:* #passportsandvisas #myresearch 

#### Everyday bordering in the contemporary global context
 *Highlight [98]:* Bordering delimits the area in which equality legislation and policies extend equal rights to specific categories of people; and it does so on the basis of their citizenship and immigration status as they intersect with racialised and gendered identities, for example (Yuval-Davis, 2006; Wilson, 2013). This ensures that, in the always shifting national hierarchies of belonging, some categories of people remain in a low place. At the same time, by determining who has the right to cross borders, firewall bordering ensures that those higher up in that hierarchy retain or improve their relative positions, as they are able to belong to different national collectivities.
 *and Note [98]:* bordering = keeps people at high positions high and low positions low. #quote on hierarchy and positionally

