---
title: "0.literature to read"
---
#literature
#README

# literature to read
## 1. [[identity]]

#Bauman, Z. (2001). Identity in the globalizing world. Social Anthropology, 9, 121–129.

#Eriksen, T.H. (2002). Ethnicity and nationalism: Anthropological perspectives (2nd edn.). London: Pluto Press

#Hall, S. (1996). Introduction: Who needs ‘identity’? In S. Hall & P. Du Gay (Eds.), Questions of cultural identity. London: Sage Publications.

#Huang, L. N. (1994). An integrative view of identity formation: a model for Asian Americans. In E. P. Salett & D. R. N. M. C. I. Koslow (Eds.), Race, ethnicity and self-identity in multicultural perspective. Washington, DC: National MultiCultural Institute.

#Kibria, N. (1993). Family tightrope: The changing lives of Vietnamese Americans. New Jersey: Princeton University Press.

#Min, P. G. (2002). The second generation—ethnic identity among Asian Americans. Walnut Creek: AlltaMira Press.

Portés, A., & Rumbaut, R. G. (2001). Legacies: The story of the immigrant second generation. Oakland: University of California Press.

#Thai, H. C. (2002). Formation of ethnic identity among second-generation Vietnamese Americans. In P. G. Min (Ed.), The second generation—ethnic identity among Asian Americans (pp. 53– 85). Walnut Creek: AlltaMira Press.
Waters,

#Zhou, M. (1997). Growing up American: The challenge confronting immigrant children and children of immigrants. Annual Review of Sociology, 23,69–95.

ivan #smalls—currencies of immagination. social remittances

phi hong [[005.Authors/Su]]’s #su book

tamsin [[Barber]]’s dissertation

[[erel]] and [[005.Authors/ryan]] more on migrant capital

kimberly [[005.Authors/Hoang]] #hoang

#yuval-davis [[yuval-davis]] read work on migration and belonging

[[005.Authors/chan]] 1991

[[kibria]] 1993