---
title: "1994.Basch, Glick Schiller-Nations Unbound"
---
# Nations unbound: transnational projects, postcolonial predicaments, and deterritorialized nation-states 

[[Basch]], Linda G; [[Glick Schiller]], Nina; Szanton Blanc, Cristina 

01 d l Page 11 28/10/2021 14:46 images of "immigrant" and "migrant" different today. no longer anchored in circumstances of ealier historic moments. immigrants now develpp networks, activities, patterns of living, and ideologies that span their home and host societies. 

02 d l Page 11 28/10/2021 14:46 

03 d l Page 11 28/10/2021 14:47 prior scholars just coined the new evolving idea of immigrants and migrants as "[[TRANSNATIONALISM]]". Consequently, increasing numbers of social scientists have begun calling the emergent migration process in which people live lives stretched across national borders “transnational” (Georges 1990; Kearney 1991a; Sutton 1992a), but the term is often used loosely and without specificity. Frequently the phenomenon of transnationalism is thought to be the outcome of transformations in the technology of communication and transportation, a product of accessible air travel and telecommunications (Wakeman 1988). Language 

04 d l Page 11 28/10/2021 14:47 

05 d l Page 12 28/10/2021 14:47 moved to frequently, didn't know where they "belonged". Rather, the migrants in the study sample moved so frequently and were seemingly so at home in either New York or Trinidad as well as their societies of origin, that it at times became difficult to identify where they “belonged.” 

06 d l Page 12 28/10/2021 14:46 

07 d l Page 13 28/10/2021 14:47 Rather than fragmented social and political experiences, these activities, spread across state boundaries, seemed to constitute a single field of social relations. These 

08 d l Page 13 28/10/2021 14:47 

09 d l Page 15 28/10/2021 14:46 transnationalism def We define “transnationalism” as the processes by which immigrants forge and sustain multi-stranded social relations that link together their societies of origin and settlement. We 

10 d l Page 15 28/10/2021 14:47 

11 d l Page 15 28/10/2021 14:46 [[transmigrants]] 

12 d l Page 15 28/10/2021 14:46 

13 d l Page 15 28/10/2021 14:46 problem with the term, "host" country is that it assumes transmigrants are "welcome" and only a "visitor" and "temporary" The migration literature describes the country of settlement as the “host,” but such a term, though compact and convenient, carries the often unwarranted connotations that the immigrant is both “welcome” and a “visitor.” [[host country]]

14 d l Page 15 28/10/2021 14:47 

15 d l Page 17 28/10/2021 14:47 Particular attention will be given to the ways these migrants are both identified and identify themselves in terms of race, ethnicity, and nation. #Identity  

16 d l Page 17 28/10/2021 14:47 

17 d l Page 17 28/10/2021 14:47 racial structuring in US a potent force shaping transnationalism of the populations researched in this study. Although the transnationalism of each of these populations is shaped by many factors, the racial structuring of the United States is a particularly potent force. 

18 d l Page 17 28/10/2021 14:47 

19 d l Page 19 28/10/2021 14:46 "world system" theory Wallerstein defines the “world system” as a social system comprised of geographic regions which perform different and unequal functions in a global division of labor (Wallerstein 1974:229– 231). While Wallerstein emphasized exchange as the fundamental relationship between the units of the system (Wallerstein 1979), an approach that sees the world as integrated by a global mode of production seems more insightful in explicating the current international division of labor (Laclau 1977; Portes 1978; Portes and Walton 1981; Sassen 1988). 

20 d l Page 19 28/10/2021 14:46 

21 d l Page 20 28/10/2021 14:46 development of transnationalism is a long-term process of global capitalist penetration. 

22 d l Page 20 28/10/2021 14:47 23 d l Page 20 28/10/2021 14:46 

24 d l Page 20 28/10/2021 14:46 framework must address link between culture and relations of power and domination since we are looking at culture. We define culture as all human practice, understood to include both thought and action, since all human action is symbolically structured and representation is part and parcel of all human behavior. However, in treating culture, the “empowering, authoritative dimensions” must be specified (J. and J.Comaroff 1991:20). Hence our analytical framework must address the link between “culture and relations of power and domination” (Roseberry 1989:25). 

25 d l Page 20 28/10/2021 14:47 

26 d l Page 21 28/10/2021 14:47 [[hegemony]] is the relationship between those who dominate within the state and those who are dominated. relations are ultimately maintained by force, the social order is sustained by daily practice, habit, and common sense. (1p. 14) Nations Unbound. 

27 d l Page 21 28/10/2021 14:47 

28 d l Page 22 28/10/2021 14:47 [[hegemony]]"HEGEMONIC CONSTRUCT" We use the term “hegemonic construct” to describe both consciously articulated statements and embedded perceptions that are used and reappropriated by transmigrants, and which serve ultimately to empower and legitimate dominant forces in both the migrants’ societies of origin and of settlement. 

29 d l Page 22 28/10/2021 14:46 

30 d l Page 22 28/10/2021 14:46 one goal of book: A goal of this book is to clarify the manner in which hegemonic constructions shape the manner in which immigrants identify themselves. 

31 d l Page 22 28/10/2021 14:47 

32 d l Page 24 28/10/2021 14:47 Transmigrants simultaneously are affected by, incorporate, and participate in hegemonic contentions “back home” as they learn new meanings and forms of representation in their new settings. 

33 d l Page 24 28/10/2021 14:46 

34 d l Page 24 28/10/2021 14:47 what a great writing on positionality! When we indicated that social scientists are consumers of and contributors to hegemonic concepts, we obviously are taking a stand. As social scientists, we see ourselves dialectically as both observers and the observed. At the same time, those about whom we write are both the subjects of our inquiry and subjects who, in relationship to what is being said and done around them, including the work of social scientists, and in relation to their own varying motivations, act upon and change the world of our inquiry. We, in turn, observe these actions and are influenced by them. What is more, we evaluate the actions, the beliefs, and the stance of our 

35 d l Page 24 28/10/2021 14:46 

36 d l Page 29 8/4/2021 12:28 

37 d l Page 29 8/4/2021 12:28 

38 d l Page 30 8/4/2021 12:28 4 premises of transnationalism 

39 d l Page 30 8/4/2021 12:28 

40 d l Page 30 8/4/2021 12:28 41 d l Page 30 8/4/2021 12:28 

42 d l Page 30 8/4/2021 12:28 bounded social science concepts limit ability of researchers to perceive and analyse phenomeon of transnationalism 

43 d l Page 30 8/4/2021 12:28 

44 d l Page 31 28/10/2021 14:46 definition of class as those whose position within the process of capitalist production is similar. Class is defined as a set of people whose positioning within the process of production is similar. Because class is about positioning, class is a description of social relationships. 

45 d l Page 31 28/10/2021 14:46 

46 d l Page 32 28/10/2021 14:47 technology by itself is not the reason why transmigrants maintain ties with multiple places. rather it is capitalism as a global mode of production that has necessitated maintenence of family ties and political allegiances Technological explanations for the emergence of more transnational patterns of migration prove to be incomplete when divorced from an analysis of the social relations of production.2 Rather it is the current moment of capitalism as a global mode of production that has necessitated the maintenance of family ties and political allegiances among persons spread across the globe. 

47 d l Page 32 28/10/2021 14:47 

48 d l Page 33 28/10/2021 14:47 post 1970, capitalist nations found it more profitable to set up production in "periphery" states. "core" economies, such as the US and other Western countries would be essential for managing "the periphery" leading to dramatic changes in the labor markets of these nation-states (p. 26) 

49 d l Page 33 28/10/2021 14:47 

50 d l Page 34 28/10/2021 14:46 loans by multinational companies. bouncing around searching for the bottom of supply chain. The loans and investments were supposed to create, according to donor agencies, development and growth in the “less developed countries.” However, even in their most optimistic projections, development agencies acknowledged that dislocation, unemployment, and pressures to emigrate would occur in the early stages of investment (DeWind and McKinney 1986). Disruption of local economies indeed did accompany the most recent wave of intense capital penetration and resulted in an increased pool of available labor as whole families of ten migrated to urban areas. This displaced and underemployed labor could not be easily absorbed by the growing but still relatively small manufacturing sector often dominated by multinationals. The stay of these foreign-capitalized companies has often been short-lived, as firms have moved from country to country in search of even lower labor costs, creating a further displacement of workers. And when workers in locations such as the Caribbean and the 

51 d l Page 34 28/10/2021 14:46 

52 d l Page 35 28/10/2021 14:47 it is also these transmigrants who are the first to be kicked out when shit hits the fan. especially if they are identifiable in some way. themselves socially, politically and economically vulnerable, no less in the society they have left than in the one they have joined” (1987:23). Doing better…than they would have done had they stayed at home, they are nevertheless disadvantaged in comparison with members of the indigenous population among whom they live and work, and with whom they are, as newcomers, in unequal competition for jobs and other scarce resources…. As long as they remain identifiable, they will always be in danger. In times of adversity, outsiders make ideal scapegoats. So it is that some of the most explosive popular movements in the contemporary world are directed against minorities which can be identified as ‘immigrant’… And such hostility is usually not just directed at immigrants themselves, but also at their locally born offspring (Ballard 1987:18). Both 

53 d l Page 35 28/10/2021 14:46 

54 d l Page 35 28/10/2021 14:47 great #wording! Economic and political vulnerability, magnified by the factor of race, augment the likelihood that migrants will construct a transnational existence. 

55 d l Page 35 28/10/2021 14:47 

56 d l Page 36 28/10/2021 14:47 focus is how migrants reconfigure space so that their lives are lived simultaneously within two or more nation states. Productive of a new imagery, much of this discourse on transnationalism has remained evocative rather than analytical. By linking our definition of transnationalism to migration and rooting our analysis in social relations, we are engaged in a somewhat different, although connected, effort. Our focus becomes the manner in which migrants, through their life ways and daily practices, reconfigure space so that their lives are lived simultaneously within two or more nation-states. 

57 d l Page 36 28/10/2021 14:46 

58 d l Page 37 28/10/2021 14:46 must look at migrants as active agents in a process of hegemonic construction. network analysis does not look at hegemonic processes of multiple states. instead it just describes connections. Providing us with a clear statement of the ongoing connectedness of migrant ties to “different places,” the call for network analysis focuses our attention on migrants as actors. These formulations, however, do not look at the implications of these networks for the formation of migrant political and social identity, or the complexities of nationalist identifications within transnational social fields. The “spider-web” networks of transmigrants must be located within the hegemonic processes of multiple nation-states, and we must move beyond descriptions of networks to a view of migrants as active agents in a process of hegemonic construction. 

59 d l Page 37 28/10/2021 14:47 

60 d l Page 38 28/10/2021 14:47 although deteritorialization is being talked about, Basch and Glick Schiller believe that world is divided politically into nation-states that are unequal in their power. Noting the constant penetration of borders, Kearney suggests that we have entered the age of transnationalism, a post-national age in which “members of transnational communities…escape the power of the nation-state to inform their sense of collective identity” (1991a:59). In contrast, we think that the current period, in which the construct of the deterritorialized nation-state is being forcefully articulated, can best be conceived as the moment of a new nationalism. While transmigrants cannot be contained or restrained by national boundaries, the world is still very much divided politically into nation-states that are unequal in their power and that serve differentially as base areas of international capital. 

61 d l Page 38 28/10/2021 14:46 

62 d l Page 41 28/10/2021 14:47 appadurai speaking about an unboundedness Appadurai, for example, has argued that there is a need to reconceptualize the “landscapes of group identity,” a need that flows from the current world conjuncture in which “groups are no longer tightly territorialized, spatially bounded, historically unselfconscious, or culturally homogeneous” (1991:191). 

63 d l Page 41 28/10/2021 14:46 

64 d l Page 42 28/10/2021 14:46 we must have a global perspecitive on history and challenge the old ideas and bounded visions of culture and society. A global perspective on history, as well as the contingencies of the current historical conjuncture, challenge us to move beyond bounded visions of culture and society. However, we are often confined by our analytical tool kit of concepts like nation, ethnic group, and tribe that divide the world into autonomous, geographically rooted, and culturally distinct units (Van Binsbergen 1981). These units have been treated as bounded entities, endowed with given, “natural,” and “group-specific” properties. 

65 d l Page 42 28/10/2021 14:46 

66 d l Page 44 28/10/2021 14:47 Part of the task of this book is to understand the manner in which the conceptual categories of race, ethnicity. and nation are hegemonic constructions and are all part of the historical exercise of state power and domination. With 

67 d l Page 44 28/10/2021 14:47 

68 d l Page 46 28/10/2021 14:47 The dialectic of simultaneous inclusivity and exclusivity of the nation-state can be understood in relationship to two processes of domination: (1) the mechanisms by which all state societies legitimate structures of power; and (2) the relationship between capital and labor that is at the historical core of nation building projects. 

69 d l Page 46 28/10/2021 14:46 

70 d l Page 46 28/10/2021 14:46 nationalism as ideology crafted by nation-states to instill idea that it is "fundamental and natural" As with any hegemonic process, specific representations of the nation emerge through active contention in which a country’s leaders and populations both play an active role. Part of nation building is nationalism, the politicized language or ideology of national unity used by those participating in projects of identity construction that focus on the nation. Nationalism is an ideology of identity; part of the ideology is the belief that national identity is fundamental and natural. 

71 d l Page 46 28/10/2021 14:47