---
title: "2005.brubaker-Diaspora Diaspora"
---

# Extracted Annotations (2021-12-14)

### p2

> "proposes to treat diaspora not as a bounded entity but as an idiom, stance and claim."([Brubaker 2005:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=2))

 diaspora as NOT a bounded identity but as an idiom, stance, and claim ([note on p.2) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=2)

### p3

>"Palestinian diaspora, too, has been construed as a 'catastrophic' diaspora/ or in Cohen's (1997) term, a 'victim diaspora'/ on the model of the Jewish case."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=2)Brubaker 2005:3)

 [[cohen]]’s term of [[victim diaspora]] ([note on p.3) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=3)

### p3

>"Some emigrant groups/ characterized as 'long-distance nationalists' by Anderson (1998)/ have been construed as diasporas because of their continued involvement in homeland politics, sometimes involving the support of terrorist or ultra-nationalist movements (Sheffer 1986, 2003; Angoustures and Pascal 1996; Bhatt and Mukta 2000)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=3)Brubaker 2005:3)

 [[long-distance nationalists]] by [[anderson]] are ‘construed as diasporas’ for their involvement in homeland politics ([note on p.3) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=3)

### p3

>"In a further extension, the term has come to embrace labour migrants who maintain (to some degree) emotional and social ties with a homeland. Algerian, Bangladeshi, Filipino, Greek, Haitian, Indian, Italian, Korean, Mexican, Pakistani, Puerto Rican, Polish, Salvadoran, Turkish, Vietnamese and many other migrant populations have been conceptualized as diasporas in this sense (Sheffer 2003)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=3)Brubaker 2005:3)

 [[labor migrants]] also have been extended into the idea of diasporas due to their maintenance of emotional and social ties with a homeland ([note on p.3) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=3)

### p4

>"'The term that once described Jewish, Greek and Armenian dispersion now shares meanings with a larger semantic domain that includes words like immigrant, expatriate, refugee, guestworker, exile community, overseas community, ethnic community' (Tololyan 1991, p. 4)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=3)Brubaker 2005:4)

 [[tololyan]] on #diaspora . the term that was once used for jewish, armenian and greek, are now lumped together with ‘immigrant, expat, refugee, guest worker, exile community, overseas community, ethnic community’ ([note on p.4) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=4)

### p4

>"The problem with this latitudinarian, 'let-a-thousand-diasporasbloom' approach is that the category becomes stretched to the point of uselessness (Sartori 1970). If everyone is diasporic, then no one is distinctively so. The term loses its discriminating power/ its ability to pick out phenomena, to make distinctions. The universalization of diaspora, paradoxically, means the disappearance of diaspora."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=4)Brubaker 2005:4)

 the main thesis of [[005.Authors/brubaker]]’s idea of [[diaspora diaspora]]. that the term diaspora encompasses so much to the point where it is diluted and loses its potency and concentration. ‘if everyone is diasporic, then no one is distinctively so’ ([note on p.4) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=4)

### p5

>"Even the editor of the journal Diaspora , a key vehicle for the proliferation of academic diaspora talk, noted in the journal's sixth year that diaspora 'is in danger of becoming a promiscuously capacious category', and argued for at least some 'stringency of definition' (Tololyan 1996, pp. 8, 30)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=4)Brubaker 2005:5)

 [[toyolyan]] editor of ‘diasporas’ journal mentioning that the term ‘diaspora’ is in danger of becoming a promiscuously capacious category’ ([note on p.5) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=5)

### p5

>"In addition to the concrete noun, 'diaspora', designating a collectivity, there are abstract nouns designating a condition (diasporicity or diasporism), a process (diasporization, de-diasporization and re-diasporization), even a field of inquiry (diasporology or diasporistics). There is the adjective 'diasporist', designating a stance or position in a field of debate or struggle.12 And there are the adjectives 'diasporic' and 'diasporan', which designate an attribute or modality/ as in diasporic citizenship, diasporic consciousness, diasporic identity, diasporic imagination, diasporic nationalism, diasporic networks, diasporic culture, diasporic religion, or even the diasporic self (to enumerate only some of the most common conceptual pairings found in recent academic articles).13"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=5)Brubaker 2005:5)

 in addition to the noun ‘diaspora’ there are other nouns, adjectives, and even a ‘field of inquiry’ ([note on p.5) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=5)

### p6

>"The first is dispersion in space; the second, orientation to a 'homeland'; and the third, boundary-maintenance."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=5)Brubaker 2005:6)

 3 core elements of diaspora:1. dispersion in space2. orientation to homeland3. boundary-maintenance  ([note on p.6) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=6)

### p6

>"(1) Dispersion. This is today the most widely accepted criterion, and also the most straightforward. It can be interpreted strictly as forced or otherwise traumatic dispersion;15 more broadly as any kind of dispersion in space, provided that the dispersion crosses state borders; or (in the increasingly common metaphorical extensions of the term), more broadly still, so that dispersion within state borders may suffice."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=6)Brubaker 2005:6)

 dispersion criteria ([note on p.6) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=6)

### p6

>"(2) Homeland Orientation. The second constitutive criterion is the orientation to a real or imagined 'homeland' as an authoritative source of value, identity and loyalty. Here a significant shift can be discerned in recent discussions. Earlier discussions strongly emphasized this criterion. Four of the six criteria specified by Safran (1991), for example, concern the orientation to a homeland.16 These include, first, maintaining a collective memory or myth about the homeland; second, 'regarding the ancestral homeland as the true, ideal home and as the place to which one would (or should) eventually return'; third, being collectively 'committed to the maintenance or restoration of the homeland and to its safety and prosperity'; and fourth, 'continu[ing] to relate, personally or vicariously', to the homeland, in a way that significantly shapes one's identity and solidarity (Safran 1991, pp. 83/84)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=6)Brubaker 2005:6)

 homeland orientation1. maintaining collective memory2. ancestral homeland as the true, ideal home that one should return to3. committed to maintenance or restoration of homeland4. continuing to relate, personally or vicariously to homeland that shapes one’s identity and solidarity ([note on p.6) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=6)

### p7

["(3) Boundary-Maintenance. The third constitutive criterion is what, following Armstrong (1976, pp. 394/7), I will call boundary-maintenance, involving the preservation of a distinctive identity vis-a-vis a host society (or societies)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=6)Brubaker 2005:7)

 boundary-maintenance, preservation of a distinctive identity vis-a-vis host society. ([note on p.7) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=7)

### p7

>"On most accounts, boundary-maintenance is an indispensable criterion of diaspora (e.g. Armstrong 1976; Safran 1991, p. 83; Tololyan 1996, p. 14; Cohen 1997, p. 24). It is this that enables one to speak of a diaspora as a distinctive 'community', held together by a distinctive, active solidarity, as well as by relatively dense social relationships, that cut across state boundaries and link members of the diaspora in different states into a single 'transnational community'."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=7)Brubaker 2005:7)

 boundary-maintenance as the main criterion of diaspora as it is what links members of diaspora to a single “transnational community” ([note on p.7) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=7)

### p7

>"Although boundary-maintenance and the preservation of identity are ordinarily emphasized, a strong counter-current emphasizes hybridity, fluidity, creolization and syncretism. In an oft-quoted remark by Stuart Hall, the 'diaspora experience... is defined, not by essence or purity, but by the recognition of a necessary heterogeneity and diversity; by a conception of 'identity' which lives with and through, not despite, difference; by hybridity ' (Hall 1990, p. 235, italics original). This counter-current is especially characteristic of the literature on transnationalism, which has tended to fuse in recent years with the literature on diaspora. There is thus a tension in the literature between boundary-maintenance and boundary-erosion ."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=7)Brubaker 2005:7)

 [[005.Authors/hall]] on diaspora experience and identity as diverse and #hybridity 

tension between boundary-making and boundary-erosion ([note on p.7) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=7)

### p8

>"A final point about the boundary-maintenance criterion is that it must occur over an extended time. This is seldom made explicit, but it is crucial. The erosion of boundaries through assimilation is always a temporally extended, inter-generational process (Alba and Nee 1997, 2003; Brubaker 2001). As a result, boundary maintenance only becomes sociologically interesting, as it were, when it persists over generations. That migrants themselves maintain boundaries is only to be expected; the interesting question, and the question relevant to the existence of a diaspora, is to what extent and in what forms boundaries are maintained by second, third and subsequent generations."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=7)Brubaker 2005:8)

 boundary-making must occur over an extended time. 2nd, 3rd, and subsequent gens. ([note on p.8) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T5QVBU2M?page=8)



