# Czech Republic

## Identity Development Among Youth of Vietnamese Descent in the Czech Republic

M.L. Seeberg and E.M. Goździak (eds.), Contested Childhoods: Growing up in Migrancy, IMISCOE Research Series, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-44610-3_7

[[2016.Andrea Svobodová and Eva Janská]]

#Identity and #belonging concept of #migrancy

How do these children label themselves? Viet or Czech? 

Research focuses more on *process* of identity construction rather than "identity outcomes"

most important driving forces behind actions of immigrant children (2nd gen) are age, gender, education levels, etc. and NOT the fact that they are children of immigrants. (Crul and Schneider 2010; Portés and Rumbaut 2001). p 122

this research agrees with the above, but also that migrant background and parents play a vital role in lives and identity formation (Min 2002; Kibria 2002). p. 122

developed concept of "migrancy" and "growing up in migrancy". 

1Min says that: “despite the tendency among Asian American scholars to downplay their importance, primordial ties, especially their parents’ home country and its culture are of a great significance for the second generation.” p. 122

#Min, P. G. (2002). The second generation—ethnic identity among Asian Americans. Walnut Creek: AlltaMira Press.[[0.literature to read]]

### Viets in the Czech Republic p. 123
1950s diplomatic relations started in .
1979-1985 CR experienced labor shortages filled by labor migrants
1989 temporary rupture in relations. transformation of CR economy forced return of viets
1994 some viets returned to CR after treaties for prof training renewed
1990s saw use of earlier contracts and migration of relatives and friends as well as "regular" labor migrants through assistance of intermediaries or recruitment agencies. 
2006 significant increase of viets factory workers working on regular employment contracts due to 2004 legal adjustment that allowed intermediary agencies to hire foreign workers. 

The viets who settle in CR after the fall of soviet communism often drew on community networks to start careers in retail business. most initially settled near border regions and sold textiles, electronics, and groceries. #stereotype of viets as stall-keeper came from this. Have since opened up nail salons, dry-cleaners, and small restaurants. 

as the first gen's children grow up and begin attending Czech schools a new stereotype emerges, one of the model minority #modelminority 

research shows that immigrant children and children of immigrants have complex identity issues. (Huang 1994; Chow 1999; Portés and Rumbaut 2001; Kibria 2002; Min 2002). most have asked the questions, "where do i belong?" and "am i viet or __ (american, czech, etc)?" it is incorrect to say that they are "stuck somewhere between two cultures" This is just one period/stage in their lives where their ideas of the self change and evolve over time p. 124

constructivist vs essentialist view of identity. 
jenkins believes that humans want to categorize the world we live in. "omnipresent and natural" part of identity is not identity itself, but the search for it. (jenkins 2004). 
Huang (1994) states that idenitty combines changes and consistency. Stable part "resides in the idenitty salience hierarchy" and process of choosing idtntiy which is appropriate to the given situation is at the core of ethnic identity. (48)

### The Dynamic Nature of Migrant Children’s Identities: Negotiating Ethnic Identity Between Highly Polarized Expectations

no direct questions about ethnicity were posed during first part of interview since research was not about ethnic identity. 

hung cam #thai's [[0.literature to read]]  (her? mistake) research as evidence of marginalization during upbringing of 2nd gen in US and feelings of not belonging to either "old" nor "new" social words. p. 125 

This particular research argues that "identity development stages", while does not capture all facets and dynamic nature of ethnic identity of every individual, they are useful to show how ethnic identity continually changes and grows. not lineal, can oscillate between both.

[[4 stages of identity construction]]
### From “Blessed Unconsciousness” to Rejecting the Ethnicity Which is Different from the Mainstream

Lin, 2nd gen Czech. 4 different stages of perception of how she thought about her ethnic identity. 
1. early childhood, not aware of differences "blessed consciousness" p. 126
2. puberty (13-15yo) aware something was different. self reflecting, "who are you going to be? Viet or Czech? Do you want to be different?" Lin experienced the pressure to conform to the majority in this stage of life (Min 2002) #min

### “Ethnic Revival”: The Renewed Interest in the Parents’ Ethnicity and Culture and the Change of Social Circle
3. "ethnic revival stage" 18yo want to understand why parents do the things they do. "deciding to be viet" p. 126. wanting to understand "roots" similar to [[wessendorf]] of roots migration research. what is a bit different is that it also came from *pressure* of parents. **not** voluntary “I chose this because I thought that it is right, that it should be like that. I look Vietnamese, I have Vietnamese parents, and I am comfortable with Vietnamese culture. I started to be really interested in all this.” she also strengthened ties with friends of viet descent due to them just "getting her" without her having to explain.

### Contesting the Dual Reference Frame of Identity and Belonging and Embarrassment of Both Cultures
4. stage of "broader options and independence" which came when she left parents' home to study at uni. after processing "ethnic revival phase" she embraced both cultures w/o feeling the need to choose between them. ideas about belonging and identity is not just one category and not necessary to put in either/or terms. multiple identities exist. On the contrary, people can have multiple identities, from which they can more or less freely and selectively use and combine according to the situation (Min 2002;Bauman 2001;Hall 1996; Huang 1994;Eriksen 2002). #hall #min #Eriksen #bauman


### partner choice and family expectations
One of the situations when young people are expected “to negotiate differences between their parents’ cultural preferences and their own” is the choice of a romantic partner (Crul et al. 2012). 

experiences of Jana and Phuong of being bullied or rejected in school and feeling that czech (locals) were not interested in them resonate with my interview with [[sophie]]? I don't remember exactly, but someone from europe had a similar experience to this one.

### That Is Not Who I Am: Contesting One’s Identity Against Generally-Held Stereotypes
immigrant children as well as children of immigrants distance themselves from newly-arrived immigrants of 10 years ago. these new wave immigrants are stereotyped as "uneducated peasants, drug dealers and criminals" (p. 130). Similar to research of Mary [[waters]] (1994) of stereotypes of blacks in US. #kibria also notes that this group's class difference may also be a determining factor of their distancing from this group. 

similar to [[my research]], women in this study saw new wave and maybe viet nam as "conservative and less developed" (p. 130). Viet men who were not raised in western country as "too traditional and would probably not be able to cope with their 'Westernized' manners" (p. 130).

another stereotype of viets is that they are "closed, incommunicative, and segregated" (Brouček 2003, 4, 26). 

The model minority stereotype (Kibria 2002; Waters 2001) paints all Vietnamese children as super-smart overachievers.

both the concepts of distancing themselves from those they did not want to be identified with (poor, uneducated, criminal) and positive identification with those who were more like them (educated and more 'westernized') (p. 131)

### Symbolic Ethnicity and Race
Is ethnicity a choice?
according to #kibria , it is not a choice as asians cannot oscillate between not being seen as ethnic and not ethnic by others like their white counterparts can. 

How is it connected to race?

### It Is Not All About Ethnicity: Contesting the Ethnic Majority–Minority Framework
first love, first "serious" relationships, friends, physical distinctions or defects, or even travel experiences, living abroad, hobbies-->passions had big influences on lives and identities 

parental relationships as well. 

Ethnicity is not the end-all be-all. and sometimes didn't even matter at all. (Crul and Schneider 2010; Eriksen 2002)

In order to define themselves, people can choose from different identities and statuses, according to the social situation (Huang 1994). (p. 133)

Contrary to the general assumption that ethnic identities in the second and fol- lowing generations become less salient (Hall 1996), ethnicity turned out to be very important for the youth in our study.

wanted to challenge western notions of a fixed and stable childhood and youth. contested the assumption of cultural essentialism that constructs children of migrants as trapped between two cultures by demonstrating interviewees as **uncomfortable with choosing either or**.

## not inner struggle of being able to choose either or, but societal pressures by parents and members of majority population. 

