---
title: "2017.besbris.LessTheoryMore2017a"
---
* Mdnotes File Name: [[besbrisLessTheoryMore2017a]]

# Extracted Annotations (2021-12-14)

### p147

> "We stake the position that a theoretically rich landscape, where theories are plentiful, is one wherein ideas are vacuous. Instead, we should aim for a descriptively rich discipline, where our theoretical frameworks are considerably less numerous and therefore more powerful."([Besbris.Khan 2017:147](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=1))

 less theory makes the work more meaningful ([note on p.147) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=1)

### p148

> "If most papers that use the concept of cultural capital are required to produce a theoretical amendment or reformulation, then the concept quickly becomes so expansive as to be meaningless (see Healy 2017). As the concept spreads, scholars become incapable of precisely stating what it is and it ends up depicting many things that are unrelated to or inconsistent with one another. Its increasingly theoretical "development" makes the concept decreasingly useful."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=1)Besbris.Khan 2017:148)

 the more a concept becomes “expansive” the more it becomes meaningless and less useful. ([note on p.148) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=2)

### p148

> "Cultural capital is a familiar concept to most sociologists, but there is little consensus on its definition. This is not because there are competing definitions—like for class, which"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=2)Besbris.Khan 2017:148)

 little consensus on definition of [[008.Theories and Concepts/theory.cultural capital]]. operational definition is constantly reimagined and reconstructed in research projects.  ([note on p.148) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=2)

### p149

> "Besbris and Khan 149 Weberians understand as a position within market relations but Marxians understand as a position within the relations of production. Instead, the operational definition of cultural capital is constantly reimagined and reconstructed within research projects."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=2)Besbris.Khan 2017:149)

### p149

> "Cultural capital is a demonstrable understanding of a valued form of practice. Such a definition is so broad that it can refer to the possession of material objects, the display of tastes and dispositions, or formal credentials from institutions. The original formulation—from Bourdieu—defined cultural capital as "goods" transmitted to individual children through family practices that were more or less valued depending on how closely they matched the cultural practices deemed important by institutions like schools (see Bourdieu and Passeron 1977:30). Subsequent reworkings by Bourdieu expanded the concept to include generalized understandings of valued forms of knowledge about cultural goods and symbols. This later definition specified cultural capital as a process or "an act of deciphering, decoding, which presupposes practical or explicit mastery of a cipher or code" (Bourdieu 1984:2). Cultural capital can thus refer to innumerable practices, for example, "table manners or the art of conversation, musical culture or the sense of propriety, playing tennis or pronunciation" (Bourdieu 1984:70), but practices can be identified as cultural capital only in their relationship to other practices that are more or less valued in a specific context.1 The implication is that the logic of valuation—what makes a particular practice valuable in relation to other practices—is not universal and is, in fact, largely arbitrary."([Besbris.Khan 2017:149](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=3))

 definition by [[bourdieu]] as “goods” transferred to children through family practices that were more or less valued depending on how much they were deemed important by institutions.  ([note on p.149) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=3)

### p150

> "Despite Lamont and Lareau's attempt, cultural capital became a wheel of fire, spiraling out of control in often unproductive ways. Suggesting it is something people "have" that can be measured as a variable that produces effects in the world makes the concept broadly applicable, but this prevents cultural capital from functioning as a conceptual framework through which it could be leveraged for advancement (see Lamont and Lareau 1988:163-4)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=3)Besbris.Khan 2017:150)

 cultural capital as something that people “have” and something quantifiable prevents it functioning as a conceptual framework  ([note on p.150) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=4)

### p150

> "The simple understanding of cultural capital as being "like money in your wallet," where the currency is culture and not cash, is the direct result of this expansion of the concept (and the abandonment of the competing notions we see in Bourdieu, DiMaggio, and Lamont and Lareau). This makes the concept widely applicable but empty. It ignores a central difference between money and culture at the core of this concern. Economic capital has a somewhat unique quality compared with other kinds of capital: It is ambivalent to its holder. If Max has $20 and Shamus has $20, we can both purchase equivalent objects within markets. We may choose different things. But, were we to choose the same good, in almost all cases, we would be able to purchase equivalent amounts of that good.2"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=4)Besbris.Khan 2017:150)

 simple understanding of cultural capital as “money in your wallet” where currency is culture and not cash makes it widely applicable by empty.  ([note on p.150) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=4)

### p150

> "We cannot say the same about cultural capital; this is a difference that makes a difference. The reception of individuals' cultural displays are highly influenced by their position. Let us"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=4)Besbris.Khan 2017:150)

 [[gendered]] process. see [[messner]]’s 1995 article. 

baseball example where two people know the same thing, but one is a man and the other a woman. their life outcomes and cultural capital would yield very different results.  ([note on p.150) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=4)

### p151

> "Besbris and Khan 151 take two examples. Imagine, for a moment, that two people know the exact same amount about baseball as one another. They similarly "embody" their baseball knowledge, wearing hats of their favorite team, participating in fantasy leagues with similar enthusiasm, and making pilgrimages to classic ballparks. They use their association with baseball to draw boundaries that are important to them and to gain power and status in their lives in the same ways. Given the money analogy, their cultural association with baseball should produce similar effects on their overall life chances. But imagine that one of these people is a man and the other is a woman. Suddenly the value of their cultural capital is different. Not because of any difference in cultural capital per se but because of the status of its holder. A broader cultural division of interest in sports by gender means that any particular attempt to leverage such knowledge (cultural capital) must be understood as a gendered process (Messner 1995). Such knowledge is therefore inextricably linked to its source (Bourdieu 1998)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/5DGFXZBI?page=4)Besbris.Khan 2017:151)

