### Source
[[Attachments/PDFs/already read/Cohen, Fischer - 2018 - Routledge handbook of diaspora studies-annotated.pdf]]

# Working-class cosmopolitans and diaspora
Pnina [[005.Authors/Werbner]] in Routledge handbook of diaspora studies Cohen, Robin; Fischer, Carolin

01 d l Page 7 28/10/2021 14:47 
02 d l Page 8 28/10/2021 14:47 
03 d l Page 8 28/10/2021 14:47 
04 d l Page 158 28/10/2021 14:46 equating cosmopolitan with intellectuals. stuart [[hall]] speaks of "[[cosmopolitainism from below]]". The tendency to associate cosmopolitanism with intellectuals is, of course, not new, and these days includes also so-called ‘capitalist cosmopolitans’ whose passports ‘bear stamps of many countries’ (Calhoun 2002: 87; cf. also Skrbis et al. 2004). Instead, Stuart Hall (2008: 346) speaks of ‘cosmopolitanism from below’: There is a ‘cosmopolitanism of the above’ – global entrepreneurs following the pathways of global corporate power and the circuits of global investment and capital, who can’t tell which airport they’re in, because they all look the same, and who have apartments in three continents. This is global [[cosmopolitanism]] of a very limited kind but it is very different from ‘cosmopolitanism from below’ – people driven across borders, obliged to uproot themselves from home, place and family, living in transit camps or climbing on to the backs of lorries or leaky boats or the bottom of trains and airplanes, to get to somewhere else. Both of them are forms of globalization and, in so far as they both interact within the same global sphere, are deeply interconnected with one another. But they don’t constitute the basis of a ‘global citizenship’. 

05 d l Page 158 28/10/2021 14:46 

06 d l Page 158 28/10/2021 14:47 Jonathan Friedman (1995: 79–80) addresses issues of transnational subjectivity as manifestations of new class formations 

07 d l Page 158 28/10/2021 14:47 

08 d l Page 158 28/10/2021 14:46 theory of global subjectivity where "global elites" run the show, produce images of the world and for the world while dining in their michelin star restaurants and staying in their 5-star hotels. 139 Pnina Werbner of international organisations such as the United Nations, who play golf, dine, take cocktails with one another, forming a kind of cultural cohort. The grouping overlaps with an international cultural elite of art dealers, publishing and media representatives, the culture industries, VIPs . . . producing images of the world and images for the world . . . a proliferation of interpretations of the world. [[hegemony]] 

09 d l Page 158 28/10/2021 14:47 

10 d l Page 159 28/10/2021 14:47 identities such as "[[hybridity]]", [[in-betweenness]] or [[double consciousness]] by diasporic poets, artists, business people are self-interested divorced from working-class migrants. Hence he launches into a trenchant critique against diasporic intellectuals who speak ‘in the name of mixture and hybridity, a claim to a humanity so fused in its cultural characteristics that no “ethnic absolutism” is possible’ (Friedman 1997: 75–6). The celebration of hybridity, in-betweenness or double consciousness by diasporic poets, artists and intellectu- als proves to be a self-interested strategy, divorced from working-class migrants’ (or indigenous people’s) predicaments and concerns. For the urban poor, he claims, ‘class identity, local ghetto identity, tend to prevail’, leaving ‘little room for the hybrid identifications discussed and pleaded for by cultural elites’ (Friedman 1997: 84). Cultural self-identifications are, ultimately, Friedman argues, like those of class or gender, a matter of social position (Friedman 1997: 88). Diasporic elites are in reality as socially and culturally encapsulated in their cocktail-sipping worlds as are ghetto dwellers in theirs. 

11 d l Page 159 28/10/2021 14:46 