* Mdnotes File Name: [[tsudaDiasporicReturnsEthnic2019]]
[[tsuda]]

# Extracted Annotations (2021-12-14)

### p14

> "However, the Korean diaspora has a significant impact on South Korea not only because so many people have left (and continue to leave), but also because a significant number of them have returned. Like other diasporas around the world, the Korean diaspora consists of not only migratory dispersal from the homeland but also a return migration flow from various Korean diasporic communities around the world back to the homeland."([Tsuda.Song 2019:14](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=14))

 #wording on impact #returnees have on state ([note on p.14) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=14)

### p15

["There are approximately 776,000 ethnic return migrants currently residing in South Korea, which consists of 39% of the country's immigrant population and 1.5% of the country's entire population. This is a larger percentage of ethnic return migrants than any other Asian country. The other Asian country with a significant ethnic return migrant population is Japan, which has a large number of  nikkeijin (Japanese-descent) immigrants from South America, who are mainly Japanese Brazilians, as well as a small number of Japanese Americans. However, in 2014, there were probably only about 237,000 nikkeijin foreigners in Japan, which is about 11% of the population of foreigners legally registered in Japan and only about 0.2% of the entire country's population. Because most ethnic return migrants are from developing countries and work as unskilled foreign laborers in their ancestral homelands, their numbers are larger in rich, developed Asian countries such as South Korea and Japan because of the greater economic incentives for diasporic return."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=14)Tsuda.Song 2019:15)

 largest number of ethnic return migrants in Asia are in S korea. 2nd largest is japan with [[nikkeijin]]. 

also that ethnic return migrants are usually from “developing countries and work as “unskilled foreign laborers” in ancestral homeland. [[ethnic return migrants from developing countries]] ([note on p.15) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)

### p15

["In addition to ethnic return migration, there is a second type of diasporic return. This consists of Korean nationals who have emigrated from South Korea, resided abroad for significant periods of time in various countries around the world, and have then return migrated back to Korea. Unlike ethnic return migrants, they are firstand 1.5-generation immigrants from abroad who are returning to their natal homeland, their country of birth. We simply use the term "return migration" to refer to this type of diasporic return, in contrast to "ethnic return migration.""(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)Tsuda.Song 2019:15)

 distinction between “return migration” and [[ethnic return migration]]. ([note on p.15) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)

### p15

["There are also repeat and circular migrants, who return home from abroad, reside in South Korea temporarily, and then migrate to another country or circulate back and forth between their home and host countries. In addition, a small number of Korean adoptees, raised by American families in U.S. since they were babies, have returned to their natal homeland, usually for temporary stays."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)Tsuda.Song 2019:15)

 [[repeat migration]][[circular migration]][[adoptees]][[temporary stays]] ([note on p.15) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)

### p15

["Although there are no reliable estimates of the total number of these firstand 1.5-generation return migrants,"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)Tsuda.Song 2019:15)

 #wording on “no reliable estimates”… ([note on p.15) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)

### p15

["In recent decades, the total volume of ethnic return migration has"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)Tsuda.Song 2019:15)

 in recent decades, total volume of ethnic return migration has increased significantly. ([note on p.15) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)

### p16

["6 t. tsudA increased significantly (Tsuda 2009b: 1-3)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=15)Tsuda.Song 2019:16)

### p16

> "There has even been limited ethnic return migration to various Southeast Asian countries, especially to Vietnam and the Philippines (see Chan and Tran 2011; Nguyen-Akbar 2014)."([Tsuda.Song 2019:16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=16))

 [[chan and tran]] [[nguyen-akbar]] ([note on p.16) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=16)

### p16

["Most of these ethnic return migrants originate in developing countries in the Global South and migrate primarily for economic reasons to richer ethnic homelands in the Global North. Relatively, few are migrating specifically to reconnect with their ancestral roots or to explore their ethnic heritage, except for possibly a small number of ethnic return migrants from developed countries (see Tsuda 2009c: 24)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=16)Tsuda.Song 2019:16)

 most ethnic return migrants from developing countries. few migrate to connect with roots, other than those from developed countries. [[tsuda]]’s 2009 work. [[ethnic return migrants from developing countries]] ([note on p.16) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=16)

### p16

["The return migration of firstand 1.5-generation immigrants from various diasporic communities back to their natal homelands has been an important part of global migration for a very long time. In fact, such returns to the homeland have been more the norm than the exception in human migratory history (Xiang 2013: 7)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=16)Tsuda.Song 2019:16)

 return migration the norm more than the exception. [[xiang]] 2013 research ([note on p.16) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=16)

### p17

["When these various kinds of diasporic return are considered, it becomes evident that diasporas are not simply constituted by migratory  dispersal across the globe, but also by migratory returns to the original homeland. In fact, most diasporas are characterized by a tension between such centrifugal and centripetal forces (Tsuda 2009b: 11). The prominence of diasporic return indicates that migration is not simply a unilinear process that terminates with permanent settlement and eventual assimilation to the host country (see also Silbereisen et al. 2014: 3; Stefansson 2004: 5; Tsuda 2009b: 7-9). Instead, it is a continuous, ongoing transnational process, especially for diasporic peoples, which involves not only further migration to other countries after their initial migratory dispersal from the homeland, but also migratory returns back to the homeland."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=16)Tsuda.Song 2019:17)

 [[diaspora]] and [[diasporic returns]] are not only about migratory dispersal, but also about returns to the original homeland. characterized by tension between centrifugal and centripetal forces. not simply a unilinear process that terminates with permanent settlement and eventual assimilation to the host country. ongoing transnational process. [[silbereisen]] and [[stefansson]] and [[tsuda]]’s 2009 works. ([note on p.17) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=17)

### p18

["We adopt an inclusive perspective that encompasses the considerable diversity of diasporic returns by examining different types of migratory returnees from various countries in South Korea and other Asian homelands. The reasons why they return to their country of natal or ancestral origin and the homeland government policies that enable their diasporic return are also quite varied. In addition, their subsequent ethnic experiences in their homeland can differ. We therefore refer to diasporic returns in the plural to stress the multiplicity of these returns."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=17)Tsuda.Song 2019:18)

 #wording on diversity of diasporic returns. not a one-size-fits all. experiences can different and use of “diasporas returns” in the plural to stress multiplicity of returns. 

#definition ([note on p.18) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)

### p18

["Homeland governments have implemented different types of policies to reconnect with their diasporas and encourage them to return "home." Some of these policies, especially those of South Korea, favor certain types of diasporic return migrants over others, resulting in inherent inequities in their immigration and citizenship status."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)Tsuda.Song 2019:18)

 [[the state]] aka [[homeland governments]] implement different policies to engage with diasporas to encourage returns. policies oftentimes prefer certain diasporic return migrants over others resulting in inherent inequalities in immigration and [[citizenship]] status.  ([note on p.18) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)

### p18

["There are also significant differences in the actual ethnic experiences of diasporic returnees in their homelands. Despite being co-ethnics who are returning to an ethnically familiar country of origin to a certain extent, their ethnic homecomings are often quite ambivalent and fraught with tensions and even social alienation from the host population. However, others have more favorable homeland receptions and experiences, increasing their sense of connection to their ethnicity and ancestry."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)Tsuda.Song 2019:18)

 [[coethnics]] experiences varied. some fraught with tensions and ambivalence and alienation from host population. some others have favorable homeland receptions and experiences.   ([note on p.18) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)

### p18

["various reasons why the nature of diasporic returns can vary considerably. This book focuses on three variables: the nationality of the migrants, their social class status, and their generational distance from the homeland."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)Tsuda.Song 2019:18)

 [[reasons for varied experiences of diasporas returns]]. 1. nationality of migrants2. social class status3. generational distance from homeland. ([note on p.18) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)

### p19

["Vathi and King 2017)"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=18)Tsuda.Song 2019:19)

 [[0.literature to read]] [[vathi and king]] ([note on p.19) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=19)

### p19

["Although the experiences of female diasporic returnees are certainly included in this book, we offer no systematic analysis of how diasporas themselves are gendered and how the diasporic returns of men differ from those of women. This is certainly a topic for future research (see Vathi 2017: 13-14 for some discussion)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=19)Tsuda.Song 2019:19)

 [[gendered]] component uninterrogated. check out [[vathi]]’s 2017 work for more discussion. ([note on p.19) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=19)

### p19

["Such differences in nationality, social class, and generation (not to mention gender and age) among diasporic return migrants inevitably mean that they are positioned differently in their homelands. Since a number of homelands receive diasporic returnees from multiple countries, an ethnic hierarchy has emerged, especially among different nationalities of ethnic return migrants. This is another theme of this book that"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=19)Tsuda.Song 2019:19)

 [[positionality]] in terms of [[nationality]], an ethnic hierarchy emerges due to homelands receiving migrants from various countries. Korean Americans higher than Korean Chinese who are higher than former Soviet Koreans. due to unequal and discriminatory korean immigration and citizenship policies of [[the state]] ([note on p.19) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=19)

### p20

["10 t. tsudA emerges in some of the case studies. In South Korea, Korean Americans are positioned at the top of the hierarchy above even Korean Japanese. Below them are Korean Chinese, who are in turn more privileged than the former Soviet Koreans. This is partly a product of unequal and discriminatory Korean immigration and citizenship policies toward ethnic return migrants of different nationalities. However, it is also structured by social class position, since the inequality between ethnic return migrants is also based on their relative socioeconomic standing in Korean society. Finally, generational status also has an impact on this ethnic hierarchy since those who are closer in terms of generation (and cultural similarity) to their ancestral homeland are more ethnically privileged and favored (see the Conclusion for further discussion)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=19)Tsuda.Song 2019:20)

### p21

> "As a result, an ethnic hierarchy has emerged between the two groups in Korea since the Korean Chinese are favored by employers and receive better jobs and even supervise Soviet Korean workers. Although both groups identified as "Koreans" in China and Russia and maintained a sense of nostalgic affiliation to their ethnic homeland, they experience negative and discriminatory treatment from Koreans as cultural foreigners and economically marginalized workers. In response to their ethnic and social alienation, the Korean Chinese prioritize their "Chinese" identities and natal homeland over their Korean ethnic homeland and the Soviet Koreans similarity assert stronger cultural identities as "Russians." Both groups do so based on the belief that their natal homeland countries of China and Russia have many positive features compared to South Korea."([Tsuda.Song 2019:21](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=21))

 chapter 4 by [[changzoo]] describes ethnic returns of chinese and soviet koreans. 

they experience discriminatory treatment from koreans as cultural foreigners and economically marginalized workers. in response to being etherized, they prioritize and assert stronger cultural identities to their respective natal-home identities.  ([note on p.21) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=21)

### p21

["Ethnic hierarchies among diasporic return migrants are not only based on their cultural status or their position in the labor market, but citizenship and formal membership as well. Not only has the South Korean government discriminated between different groups of ethnic return"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=21)Tsuda.Song 2019:21)

 #wordingtransition from [[ethnic hierarchies]] due to cultural status, nationality, and position in labor market but also [[citizenship]] and formal membership. [[visas]] and discrimination based on permanent residency and naturalization policies. ([note on p.21) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=21)

### p22

["12 t. tsudA migrants in terms of immigration visas, it has also done so in terms of permanent residency and naturalization policies."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=21)Tsuda.Song 2019:22)

### p22

> "Chapter 5, Nora Hui-Jung Kim analyzes a large sample of court cases in which Korean Chinese immigrants challenged the denial by the government of their permanent residency or citizenship applications. The Korean Chinese face considerably greater difficulties meeting the requirements for formal membership in the nation-state compared to Korean ethnic return migrants from North America."([Tsuda.Song 2019:22](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22))

 chapter 5 [[nora hui-jung kim]]’s research on Korean Chinese court cases who have a difficult time obtaining citizenship compared to their american counterparts. ([note on p.22) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)

### p22

["In addition, even those who do successfully obtain formal citizenship in South Korea do not enjoy the same level of rights and privileges compared to their North American counterparts and therefore lack real, substantive citizenship."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)Tsuda.Song 2019:22)

 even when Korean Chinese obtain citizenship they do not enjoy rights and privileges as much as their american counterparts do. ([note on p.22) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)

### p22

["Chapter 6 by Sug-In Kweon, is about Korean Japanese ethnic return migration from Japan to South Korea. Although ethnic return migrants from developed countries who are mainly professionals or students in their ancestral homelands usually enjoy more favorable ethnic homecomings, this is not always the case for the Korean Japanese. They often experience prejudice and intolerance in South Korean society because of the negative attitudes many Koreans have of Japanese, which is the result of the past history of Japanese colonial oppression as well as continued tensions between the two countries. As a result, the Korean Japanese can face discrimination, hostility, and even ridicule in their ancestral homeland, especially because they are completely assimilated to Japanese culture and are not familiar with the Korean language or culture. As they become disenchanted with their Korean homeland and their former identity as "Koreans" is challenged and problematized, many of them adopt and embrace an alternative identity as "ethnic Koreans residing in Japan" instead of identifying in purely nationalist terms."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)Tsuda.Song 2019:22)

 #wording[[nguoi ___ goc viet]] aligning with “ethnic koreans residing in Japan” instead of identifying in purely nationalist terms.

[[sug-in kweon]]’s research about korean japanese ethnic returns from developed countries. these korean japanese experience intolerance in S korea because of negative attitudes toward past history of japanese colonial oppression as well as continued tensions between the two countries. 

they become disenchanted with korean homeland and former identity as “koreans” challenged and problematized. ([note on p.22) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)

### p22

["Chapter 7 by Christian Joon Park is about the diversity of mainly 1.5-generation Korean Americans. He examines the various reasons why they return and the positive as well negative perceptions of them in South Korea. on the one hand, they are seen as globalized Koreans who are valuable assets"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)Tsuda.Song 2019:22)

 [[christian joon park]]’s research on 1.5-gen americans. examining various reasons for return and dilemma of acceptance and rejection. 

do not develop “counter-identities” based on a deterritorialized, nationalist identification with the US, instead adopting more fluid, transnational identities as “korean americans” or as “globalized koreans” ([note on p.22) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)

### p23

["1 KoREAN DIASPoRIC RETURNS 13 for Korean society because of their English abilities and professional skills and ability to adapt to Korean society. At the same time, there are some negative images of Korean Americans, which question their moral standing and their motives for returning to Korea. In response to their ambivalent experiences and cultural marginalization in Korea, Korean Americans do not develop counter-identities based on a deterritorialized, nationalist identification with the United States. Instead, they adopt more fluid, transnational identities as "Korean Americans" who embody the best of both America and South Korea, or more expansive ethnic identities as "globalized Koreans.""(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=22)Tsuda.Song 2019:23)

### p23

> "Chapter 8 by Kim Park Nelson is about Korean adoptees in the U.S. who return to their natal homeland of South Korea. Although they are technically 1.5-generation immigrants in the U.S., because they were adopted primarily by white families usually when they were infants and raised in mainstream American society, they have lost their connection to their ethnic heritage and culture. However, most do not return migrate in order to reconnect with their Korean ethnic roots or identity and many do not even seriously search for their Korean families of birth or acquire much proficiency in the language. Instead, they cite more instrumental and mundane reasons for returning to their natal homeland. Although they are racially invisible in South Korea, they are socially visible because of their lack of Korean linguistic and cultural ability, making them feel self-conscious and inadequate. Ultimately, in response to their discriminatory racial exclusion in the U.S. as Asians and cultural exclusion in Korea as Americans, they develop dual, transnational identities which reflect how they are in-between both countries."([Tsuda.Song 2019:23](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=23))

 chap 8 [[kim park nelson]]’s work on korean adoptees to white families in the US. 

return not to connect to roots, but for mundane reasons. 

racially invisible but socially visible due to lack of korean linguistic and cultural ability resulting in self-consciousness and inadequacy. in response, they develop dual, transnational identities reflecting how they are [[in-between]] both countries.  ([note on p.23) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZATNCL67?page=23)



