---
title: "2019.Tsuda-Diasporacity"
---

### Source
[[Attachments/PDFs/already read/Cohen, Fischer - 2018 - Routledge handbook of diaspora studies-annotated.pdf]]
[[diaspora]]
# Diasporicity: Relative embeddedness in transnational and co-ethnic networks
[[diasporicity]]
Takeyuki (Gaku) [[tsuda]]
Routledge handbook of diaspora studies Cohen, Robin; Fischer, Carolin


11 d l Page 159 28/10/2021 14:46 

12 d l Page 208 28/10/2021 14:46 

13 d l Page 209 28/10/2021 14:47 

14 d l Page 209 28/10/2021 14:46 whittle down definition of "diaspora" to 3 criteria. More recently, scholars have attempted to whittle down these definitional lists to a few (usually three) essential elements that constitute diasporas. 

15 d l Page 209 28/10/2021 14:47 

16 d l Page 209 28/10/2021 14:46 dispersed to 2-3 countries and maintain real//imagined/mythical connection to original homelands They agree that diasporas are ethnic groups that have dispersed to two or more countries and have retained some actual, imagined or mythical connection to their original homelands (Brubaker 2005: 5–6; Butler 2001: 192–4; Faist 2010: 12–13; Parreñas and Siu 2007: 1; Van Hear 1998: 6). However, 

17 d l Page 209 28/10/2021 14:46 

18 d l Page 209 28/10/2021 14:46 "diasporacity" - concept where some ethnic groups are more diasporic than others. defined by degree of embeddedness in transnational social relations and affiliations with both ethnic homeland and disperced co-ethnic communities in diaspora located in other countries. I advance the idea that we understand it as a relative condition of diasporicity where some ethnic groups are more diasporic than others. The diasporicity of an ethnic group is defined by its relative degree of embeddedness in transnational social relations 190 Diasporicity and affiliations with both the ethnic homeland and dispersed co-ethnic communities in the diaspora located in other countries. In 

19 d l Page 209 28/10/2021 14:46 

20 d l Page 210 28/10/2021 14:46 <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">diasporic wheel analogy Diasporas as transnational communities resemble a wheel with the homeland at the centre and the various overseas diasporic communities on the circumfer- ence, with the spokes representing their ties to the homeland and the wheel rim representing their connections to each other.</mark> 

21 d l Page 210 28/10/2021 14:46 

22 d l Page 210 28/10/2021 14:47 victim diasporas have stronger degree of diasporacity due to shared trauma and suffering. Members of ‘victim diasporas’ (created by the forced migration of persecuted peoples) tend to have higher levels of diasporicity because they share powerful historical memories of collective persecution, suffering and traumatic dispersal, which can remain a part of their group conscious- ness for generations and lead to collective solidarity and even mobilization across borders, such as to establish or support a beleaguered homeland or defend against continued ethnic or religious persecution. In 

23 d l Page 210 28/10/2021 14:47 

24 d l Page 210 28/10/2021 14:47 diasporas which share language, culture, religion will likely be more diasporic than those that do not. Diasporas that share the same culture, language and/or religion will likely be more diasporic than those that do not. Despite being scattered geographically, such cultural commonalities and shared religious faith can produce ethnic solidarity across national borders that produces a stronger collective identification as members of a cohesive diasporic community. They can also facilitate communication across national borders, which is essential to transnational diasporic social rela- tions. Needless 

25 d l Page 210 28/10/2021 14:47 

26 d l Page 211 28/10/2021 14:47 <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">marginalization and discrimination leads to more diasporacity. in contrast, dispersed ethnic groups that have become more assimilated which can lead to weaker transnational ties.</mark> The amount of marginalization and ethnic discrimination that diasporic peoples experience from host societies may also have an impact on their diasporicity. When displaced ethnic commu- nities face considerable socio-economic and ethnic exclusion or persecution, they may become more diasporic by relying more on their transnational ethnic linkages with the homeland and to others in the diaspora as a means to obtain resources, social status and belonging denied them in the host society. In fact, a number of scholars have emphasized how diasporic peoples tend not to be assimilated and socially integrated in the host society and face social marginalization and discrimination (Brubaker 2005: 6; Cohen 1997: 186; Parreñas and Siu 2007: 13; Safran 1991: 83; Shuval 2000: 44). In contrast, other dispersed ethnic groups have become cultural and socially assimilated to their host countries over time, which can lead to an attenuation of their trans- national, diasporic connections to homelands and co-ethnic communities abroad. However, a growing number of studies have also documented how the assimilation of immigrants and their descendants is not necessarily incompatible with their continued transnational involvement in countries 

27 d l Page 211 28/10/2021 14:47 

28 d l Page 211 28/10/2021 14:47 <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">however, assimilation of 1st generation does not mean that 2nd generation will not have continued transnational ties with countries of ethnic origin. </mark> incompatible with their continued transnational involvement in countries of ethnic origin (see Tsuda 2012b for a discussion). 

29 d l Page 211 28/10/2021 14:46 

30 d l Page 211 28/10/2021 14:46 

31 d l Page 212 28/10/2021 14:46 

32 d l Page 212 28/10/2021 14:46 diasporicity of japanese is relatively low due to being a relatively older diaspora and being more assimilated with each other. lateral ethnic affiliations are also weak. Despite their migratory dispersal from the Japanese homeland to predominantly one part of the world, diasporic nikkei communities in the Americas have a relatively low level of diasporicity for a number of reasons. Because they are an older diaspora, their centripetal transnational ties to Japan have generally weakened over time, and they have also not devel- oped notable lateral ethnic connections and affiliations with each other (Tsuda 2016: 261–8; White 2003: 316). Unlike newer, first-generation diasporas, these dispersed populations of Japanese-descent nikkeijin are generations old and have assimilated to their respective host societies, which has led to the attenuation of both their homeland diasporicity and their transnational ethnic connections to Japanese descent communities elsewhere in the Americas. 

33 d l Page 212 28/10/2021 14:47 

34 d l Page 213 28/10/2021 14:47 <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">western countries positioned high in geopolitical power have less interest in countries below them. thus, japanese americans less interested in brazilian japanese. in contrast japanese brazilians are much more aware of japanese americans because they see the US as a powerful country in the americas and has impact on the region. </mark> In addition to their low homeland diasporicity, Japanese Americans do not have any notable lateral transnational ties with Japanese descendants in other countries and have little awareness of them, especially those living in South America (see Tsuda 2016: chapter 8). Because the host country of the Japanese Americans is positioned at the top of the global geopolitical and economic order, they seem to have less interest in Japanese Brazilians and other South American nikkei, who are positioned lower in the diaspora (just as Americans in general have less interest and knowledge about South America because of its lower significance for them). In contrast, Japanese Brazilians are much more aware of Japanese Americans because they (like other Brazilians) focus their attention on the United States, which is the most powerful country in the Americas and has a significant impact on the entire region. 

35 d l Page 213 28/10/2021 14:47 

36 d l Page 214 28/10/2021 14:47 diasporicity can be used to examine internal differences in a diaspora based on nationality, gender, or immigrant generation. The concept of diasporicity can therefore be used to compare different diasporic groups as well as examine internal differences in a diaspora based on nationality, gender or immi- grant generation. There are undoubtedly many reasons why certain diasporic peoples have stronger transnational connections and communities than others, which are related to the causes of their diasporic dispersal, their level of cultural similarity, their marginalization and discrimination from host societies, and the amount of time they have been living in the diaspora. In this way, diasporicity provides a framework for researchers to empirically assess, compare and explain the characteristics of transnational ethnic groups constituted by migratory dispersal. 

37 d l Page 214 28/10/2021 14:46 38 d l Page 294