---
title: "2019.erel-Migrant Capitals Proposing"
---
# Extracted Annotations (2021-12-14)

### p248

> "Migrants routinely experience a mismatch between the spatial contexts where their resources were formed and the new contexts where they look to validate these as capitals."([Erel.Ryan 2019:248](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3))

### p248

> "Combining the macro-level factors of economic and political structures, the meso-level of networks with the micro-level of personal narratives, the article proposes that such a multi-level analytic framework, that is sensitive to temporal and spatial dynamics, is useful in highlighting the fractures, hierarchies and exclusions in specific fields."([Erel.Ryan 2019:248](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3))

### p248

> "We propose that such a spatio-temporal multi-level analysis can also highlight migrants' agency and strategies to mobilize resources as capitals; building new capitals in new places. This in turn challenges the idea that migrants' integration and accumulation of capitals follows linear trajectories, an urgent task for research on the role of time in migration (Griffiths et al., 2013). Our spatio-temporal approach instead allows for a more nuanced understanding of ebbs and flows in the valorization of migrants' resources through space and time. We pay attention to the temporal and spatial dynamics of how migrants use different capitals."([Erel.Ryan 2019:248](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3))

### p248

> "Our starting point is Bourdieu's (1986) conceptualization of social, cultural and economic capital, emphasizing the dynamic role of capitals in making and negotiating fields."([Erel.Ryan 2019:248](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3))

 piggy backing off of [[bourdieu]] ([note on p.248) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3)

### p248

>"However, as argued previously (Erel, 2010), migration studies literature broadly frames capitals in two ways: a human capital approach and a Bourdieusian approach."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3)Erel.Ryan 2019:248)

 migration research frames capital in two ways: 1. human capital2. bourdieusian ([note on p.248) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3)

### p249

>"By paying attention to a spatial dimension in researching mobility (Neal et al., 2015), we conceive of place as an ongoing production based on a particular constellation of social relations, meeting and weaving together at a particular locus (Massey, 2006). As Sarah Neal et al. (2015) note, by crossing national boundaries, migrants are actively engaged in placemaking."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=3)Erel.Ryan 2019:249)

 the authors of this article are looking into spatial dimension when researching about mobility. 

#readme [[Neal]]’s 2015 work on crossing national boundaries and placemaking

 ([note on p.249) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)

### p249

>"For example, particularities of place both shape and are shaped by gender and the relationship between masculinities, femininities, migration, mobility and transnationalism is usefully understood as mutually constitutive (Yeoh and Ramdas, 2014)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)Erel.Ryan 2019:249)

 particularities of place shape and are shaped by gender and relationships between masculinities, femininities, migration, mobility and transnationalism. ([note on p.249) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)

### p249

>"While the mobilities turn has led to foregrounding the spatial in migration research, there has been less attention to the temporal aspects of migration (Robertson and Ho, 2016). Hence, there are gaps in migration studies in relation to understanding time, especially gender and time, as well as in the application of longitudinal research (Griffiths et al., 2013)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)Erel.Ryan 2019:249)

 less attention to temporal aspects of migration, especially #gender and #time. in additional to longitudinal research. ([note on p.249) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)

### p249

>"Our understanding of time is informed by the work of Glen Elder (1998). In analysing how time is experienced on different levels, he uses the notion of 'historical time' to represent specific macro socio-political contexts. These 'moments' in historical time and place, such as war or economic recession, shape individual opportunities and strategies (Elder, 1998)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)Erel.Ryan 2019:249)

 #readme glen [[elder]]’s 1998 work on time, esp. “historical time”. 

similar to [thai](005.Authors/thai.md)’s work cited in [Barber](005.Authors/Barber.md)’s work on authenticity as “magnified moments”? ([note on p.249) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)

### p249

>"On the microlevel, for example, time to care for children may be devalued (Felski, 1999) and impact women's migration experiences and opportunities to access skilled work. Therefore, in the case studies below we demonstrate that the degree to which migrants fit in or synchronize (Elder, 1998) with meso and macro structures and norms is an important factor enabling or hindering their development and use of capitals."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)Erel.Ryan 2019:249)

 this case study shows degree to which migrants synchronize [[elder]] with miso and macro structures which is an important factor enabling or hindering development and use of capitals. ([note on p.249) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)

### p250

>"For our analysis in this article we focus on three inter-related fields: work, reproduction and citizenship1 as these are important fields for developing and validating migrants' capitals."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=4)Erel.Ryan 2019:250)

### p250

> "In crossing national borders migrants often experience how cultural, social and economic resources are valued differently in specific places as capitals (Kelly and Lusis, 2006). Indeed, the ability to legally cross borders, access labour markets, skilled professions or self-employment is differentiated according to access to information, cultural, social and economic capital as well as national belonging, often intersecting with racialized markers (cf. Kaufman et al., 2004). National citizens and some naturalized or settled migrants are able to access such privileges (Bauder, 2008)."([Erel.Ryan 2019:250](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=5))

 “global north” or westernized migrants are able to access more social and economic [capital](008.Theory/capital.md) and national belonging and more privileges, often intersecting with radicalized markers. see work of [[kaufman et al]] 2004. #readme

national citizens as well as those who can gain citizenship are able to access such privileges. [[bauder]]’s 2008 work. ([note on p.250) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=5)

### p250

>"By contrast, migrants from the global South or peripheral nations not only encounter obstacles to border crossing, but may also routinely experience the devaluation of their cultural capital (Nohl et al., 2006) leading to de-skilling and de-classing (Trevena, 2011). By refusing to accept the equivalence of educational qualifications, institutions in the country of settlement create hierarchical access to labour markets, reinforced by immigration legislation, educational and professional regulations. These processes of exclusion and subordination of migrants' cultural capital are reinforced by employers, for example, discounting work experience gained in countries of origin."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=5)Erel.Ryan 2019:250)

 #great!countries in the global South or [[peripheral nations]] encounter obstacles to border crossing and devaluation of cultural capital, de-skilling and de-classing. 

in the context of their skills, education, and class this is #opposite to what my informants face. although they are not white nor citizens of VN yet, they experience a significant upgrade. 

however with border crossing, they still face challenges esp. in the era of #covid and the pandemic. 

also see rebecca [Hamlin](005.Authors/Hamlin.md)'s work “crossing”.  ([note on p.250) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=5)

### p250

>"Migration research has pointed out how the experience of mobility across differing socio-spatial contexts leads to a mismatch of cultural resources and opportunities for their recognition and validation (Erel, 2010; Ryan, 2011)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=5)Erel.Ryan 2019:250)

 the author’s work on how experience of mobility across differing socio-spatial contexts leads to mismatch of cultural resources and opportunities for recognition and validation [erel](005.Authors/erel.md) (2010) and [ryan](005.Authors/ryan.md) (2011) ([note on p.250) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=5)

### p251

>"cross-cultural habitus of non-belonging as migrants may be accorded a marginalized position within the destination nation (Noble, 2013)"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=5)Erel.Ryan 2019:251)

 cross-cultural #habitus of non-belonging when migrants are marginalized in destination nation. ([note on p.251) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=6)

### p251

>"Furthermore, differential class, gender and generational positioning of migrants within the family, the ethnic or migrant group as well as the wider context of the society of residence and the transnational context affect access to capitals (Anthias, 2007; D'Angelo, 2015; Erel, 2010; Holgate et al., 2010). Thus, looking at the interrelation of migrants' positioning across different fields of work, family and citizenship can show that gains in one field may be accompanied by losses in others."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=6)Erel.Ryan 2019:251)

 gains in some capital may be accompanied by losses in others in the context of migrant #positioning in different fields of work, family, citizenship, etc. ([note on p.251) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=6)

### p252

>"Citizenship status is a key factor stratifying migrants' ability to be mobile, access valued parts of the labour market, such as formal employment with rights and benefits, skilled work and certain state-regulated professions as well as the rights to engage in family reunion and extend their stay over time (Ryan et al., 2009). Yet, as noted above, such developments are not uni-directional. As discussed later with Brexit, the citizenship rights of EU migrants in the UK may be undermined, leading to insecurity regarding working and residency rights (Kilkey, 2017). Hence, opportunities for mobility and settlement may change in new and unanticipated ways."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=6)Erel.Ryan 2019:252)

 #great #wording on citizenship and visas leading to insecurities regarding work and residency rights in [[kilkey]]’s 2017 work. this leads to the possibility that opportunities and settlement could change in new and unanticipated ways. 

this is true for my informants as they are faced with the uncertainty that #covid brings. ([note on p.252) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=7)

### p252

>"Although we have worked separately on these projects, there are similarities in our analytical approach emphasizing the significance of skill, gender, family networks and citizenship, which we explored together in a book (Ryan et al., 2015)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=7)Erel.Ryan 2019:252)

 #readme a book of the author’s analytical approach emphasizing the significance of skill, gender, family networks, and citizenship ([note on p.252) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=7)

### p254

>"to flee his stalking, again highlighting the salience of place in migrants' access to sources of support. To find accommodation, employment and social and emotional support in the new city, she turned to a Turkish advice centre, which initially set her up with a contact in the Turkish community for accommodation. However, this exposed her to sexual harassment and stigmatization as a divorcee, with supposedly 'loose morals' in a migrant community dominated by patriarchal-oriented social networks (Eryilmaz, 1998). As her German language was limited, she built her social networks with an alternative Turkish community around cultural activities sponsored by the embassy. These new networks accepted her performance of an independent femininity, as this resonated positively with the then hegemonic form of Turkish state sponsored 'republican capital' (Sanli, 2011)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=7)Erel.Ryan 2019:254)

 is spatial aspect of migration important in the context of migration when there are #icts and online [[social networks]]? ([note on p.254) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=9)

### p256

>"A temporal analysis allows us to see the significance of 'synchronicity' (Elder, 1998) of temporal developments on the micro-, mesoand macro-levels."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=9)Erel.Ryan 2019:256)

### p257

> "Citizenship is significant both as an arena of rights which enable access to legal residence and bestow mobility rights, work and social rights, but also as a field in which belonging and participation, and most critically questions of who can belong, are enacted."([Erel.Ryan 2019:257](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=12))

 #great #wording on citizenship in connection with belonging ([note on p.257) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=12)

### p257

>"When European migrants enjoyed mobility rights, they had the opportunity to consider staying or leaving and, indeed, returning (re-migrating) in the future as personal circumstances change, allowing for a projected flexible invocation of citizenship rights in the UK, the home country or other EU member states (Erel, 2011; Ryan, 2018; Ryan et al., 2008)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=12)Erel.Ryan 2019:257)

 flexibility in citizenship rights but different than [[ong]]’s research on [[flexible citizenship	 ([note on p.257) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=12)

### p258

>"Realizing that her Polish qualification in psychology would not enable her to work as a clinical psychologist in Britain, she had to re-qualify at a London university. When Louise interviewed Karina in 2014 she had secured a job as a psychologist in the National Health Service (NHS) and married her British partner. At that time, having lived in London for a decade, she was enjoying life in the city and had no plans to return to Poland. One key reason for this was that her British husband did not speak Polish. Thus, as a woman, her mobility was shaped, at least in part, by relationality."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=12)Erel.Ryan 2019:258)

 reminds me of my conversation with [[vy]] from australia. she moved to VN because of her relationship with her partner who worked at nike. 

she talked about staying in a villa as well as the tensions of family expectations of remittances. to the point where she did not want to visit them. 

also talked about experiences of racism and discrimination by white women in OZ. she became popular as she got older and she stood out as the only “vy” but then moved to VN where everyone has the name “vy” and she was not the “unicorn”.  ([note on p.258) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)

### p258

>"Shortly after the EU referendum in the summer of 2016 Louise re-contacted all her Polish research participants to enquire about their reactions to Brexit and how it might impact on their migration plans."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)Erel.Ryan 2019:258)

 re-contacted informants after major issue. similar to how i did with mine after #covid revealing definite shifts and plans in migration and citizenship. ([note on p.258) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)

### p258

>"Karina was among those who provided fulsome answers, pointing out that she felt devastated and took the vote as an expression of xenophobia and anti-migrant feeling. However, although 'heartbroken' by the xenophobia and 'racial crime' such as attacks on Polish people, she also felt 'trapped', as neither her husband's nor her profession would be easily transferable to another country, she did not consider it possible to migrate elsewhere, without a severe drop in income. Building on Erel (2010) who pointed to the difficulty of bringing cultural capital from the origin to the destination society, Louise has noted that highly skilled migrants may also experience difficulty transporting their newly acquired cultural capital from the destination back to the country of origin or elsewhere. Highly specialized, skilled work is often built on place-specific accreditations, contacts and experience, hence, the more specialized one becomes within a profession, the less mobile one may be (Ryan and Mulholland, 2014)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)Erel.Ryan 2019:258)

 [[asian hate]] and [[black lives matter]] movements in the US as well as other white nations during the pandemic in 2020 and 2021 anchored and solidified [[highly skilled migrants]] in VN. many felt safer. reference [[sen]]’s article that came out. 

however during the new delta outbreak in the summer of 2021, my informants in VN faced a real threat to their stay in VN. namely facing  what seemed like indefinite lockdowns and the uncertainty of whether activities and life  in VN as they knew it, would return to pre-lockdown levels, many sought to leave rather than stay. taking advantage of [[ong]]’s [[flexible citizenship]] [[citizenship]]

in this paragraph, the authors, namely Louise [[005.Authors/ryan]]’s work on highly skilled migrants possibly experiencing difficulty transporting their newly acquired skills from country of destination back to country of origin or elsewhere. some of my informations display the #opposite. but some stayed behind, contributing to what [[005.Authors/ryan]] and mullholand (2014) have suggested that “skilled work is often built on place-specific accreditations, contracts and experience” so that the more specialized one becomes, the more immobile they become.  ([note on p.258) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)

### p258

>"changes on the macro-level, such as the Brexit process, show the potential variability of citizenship rights. Such rights can be put at risk in changing socio-political contexts, illustrating that migrants cannot assume that their cultural, social and economic capital in the country of residence will continue to accrue value or even be maintained. Continual effort is required to maintain a recognized sense of legitimate belonging. As Bourdieu (1990: 66) suggests, to participate in a field players have to develop a 'feel for the game', however, we argue that the rules of the game can change significantly over time due to sociopolitical changes in citizenship and rights regimes, requiring migrants to adapt and develop new strategies."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)Erel.Ryan 2019:258)

 macro-level changes can occur suddenly and migrants cannot assume that their cultural, social, and economic capital will accrue in value or even be maintained. continue effort required to maintain recognized sense of legitimate [[belonging]]. #wording

[[bourdieu]] reference to participating in a “field”, players must develop a “feel for the game”, but when the rules change significantly due to socio-political changes in citizenship and rights, migrants must adapt and develop new strategies such as [[flexible citizenship]] ([note on p.258) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)

### p259

>"an additional nationality (in the case of dual-citizenship) becomes a strategy for protecting social, economic and cultural capital as well as claims to belonging."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=13)Erel.Ryan 2019:259)

 applying for citizenship or dual citizenship may become a strategy  ([note on p.259) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=14)

### p259

>"As Birgul found, a coherent professional biography, often a precondition for an upward career trajectory, is rendered contingent for migrants who are subject to immigration control and depend on a variety of permits to access residence rights, the labour market in general and particular professions. The possibility to develop an upward career trajectory, then needs to be seen not simply as an expression of individual efforts to accumulate cultural capital in a professional field, but as contingent upon citizenship status and rights. Therefore, drawing on Elder (1998), we argue that a temporal analysis needs to bring the micro-level of biographical analysis together with the meso-level of relationality and networks and the macro-level of socio-political conditions to fully appreciate the conditions and strategies for migrants' capital formation."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=14)Erel.Ryan 2019:259)

 upward career trajectory is not only contingent on migrant’s’ moves, but socio-political factors namely [[citizenship]] and rights. 

thus [[temporal]] analysis needed to bring micro=level (biographical analysis) and meso-level of relationally and networks and macro-level so socio=political to understand strategies for [[migrant capital]] formation ([note on p.259) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=14)

### p259

>"these stories we draw attention to the role of nationality, ethnicity and racialization as affecting the constitution of the field of citizenship. Brexit reaffirms the role of the nation-state and the importance of national boundaries, which had been assumed to be less important in the context of intra-EU mobility. Place now matters more than ever. Taken together, these two case studies present racialized migrants with the repeated challenge of having to prove their right to be here (El-Tayeb, 2011; Erel, 2007), which makes it very difficult to claim belonging and legitimate social, political and cultural participation. While such everyday bordering practices are affecting increasingly larger numbers of migrants and non-migrants (Yuval-Davis et al., 2018),"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=14)Erel.Ryan 2019:259)

 everyday bordering practices affecting larger numbers of migrants and non-migrants [[yuval-davis]] et al 2018. 

#great #wordingdrawing attention to nationality, ethnicity and racialization affecting the constitution of the field of citizenship. 

#covid reaffirms the role of nation-state and importance of national boundaries which was assumed to be less important in the context of my informants being ethnically viet. 

[[el-tayeb]] (2011} research and [[erel]] with their research on how migrants have to prove their right to be in EU. ([note on p.259) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=14)

### p259

>"racialized hierarchies and hierarchies of migration status."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/D68D6QSX?page=14)Erel.Ryan 2019:259)

