---
title: "2020.Nozina and Kraus-Vietnamese Organized Crime in the Czech Republic"
---
#bookreview

# Vietnamese Organized Crime in the Czech Republic

## [Book Reviews](_Spaces/work/Book%20Reviews.md) In discussion w/ [Phi Hong Su](005.Authors/Su.md)
- 5-6 paragraphs? 
	- 1 p overview of book,  (dan)
		- This is a short and accessible work on the Vietnamese diaspora, its immigration patterns, and ties to criminality in the Czech Republic (CR). Nozina and Kraus' backgrounds, both as researchers and within the police force, offers readers an intimate insider perspective into the Vietnamese diasporic experience and its connection to crime networks. By drawing on their previous studies in the Czech language, this book presents an analysis available to an English-speaking audience. The authors make evident that Vietnamese organized crime does not exist independently of itself. Problems, such as "poorly managed migration policies", on all sides of the border--in the CR as well as Vietnam and the international community--are responsible for pushing migrants into "socially ostracising, economically over-exploiting or politically excluding" illegal activites (p. 12). While the focus is the CR, the intention of the authors was to "understand the phenomenon of Vietnamese crime in a wider international context (p. 3)."
		- 
	- 1 para overview chapter (dan)
		- The monograph is replete with examples of the legal and illegal dealings of “respectable men” and the bộ đội (mercenaries) who often assist them. It begins with an introduction briefing readers to the details of Vietnamese migration to the CR, their research methodology, criminal networks and their "modi operandi". Qualitative data for the ethnographic study was based on police reports, interviews with police forces and foreign services, and members of the Vietnamese diaspora in the CR and Vietnam. Nozina and Kraus employ the theory of "village mentality" (Chapter 2) to frame and analyze their findings. They argue that "a traditional Vietnamese considers himself not as an independent individual but as a component within a system of relationships", in essence, part of a collective society where the diaspora and criminal networks exist in a partially mutual, yet exploitative symbiosis (p. 7). The main parts of the case study begin on chapter 3 with Vietnamese migration to the Czech republic in the 1950s and increasing with the 1989 Velvet Revolution. The social, economic, and political changes following the Velvet Revolution also saw an increase in organized crime within the diaspora. 
		- Chapter 4 expands on the legal and illegal components of the Vietnamese diaspora and the locations where they merge. The illegal components are organized by size: small, middle, to large organizations. While the 2008 global financial crisis had adverse effects on both old and new migrants, newer migrant workers who lost their jobs were more susceptible to being siphoned into illegal work. This was due in part to the overwhelming amount of debt new migrants accumulated from various dich vu (broker agencies) which supported their transit to Europe.  
		- Beginning on Chapter5 "models", or non-fictional illustrative examples, are used to show how criminal activity would be executed in various situations. The illegal activities detailed are mainly economic in nature and due to the ubiquitous quality of criminal activities in the CR, Vietnamese migrants and organizations are presented as engaging in some kind of illegal or semi-illegal activity.  Street peddlers, fruit and vegetable sellers, restaurant owners, migration brokers, and apartment owners/renters could all be fronts for an illegal operation. Illegal activities described were extensive and took the form of: tax evasion, counterfeiting tobacco, alcohol, brand goods, and legal and identification documents, drug smuggling and production of illegal substances such as cannabis, meth, or legal precursor drugs, usury, violent crime, and human trafficking, wildlife smuggling, and pseudo hunts. 
		- For example, how under-reported counterfeit merchandise would be imported in containers into Prague using counterfeit documents which were forged under a name of a person that did not exist.  
	- 1 para per critique 
	- 1 wrap-up (dan)
 
- what is its contribution to english-only audiences?  [Schwenkel](005.Authors/schwenkel.md)'s "socialist mobilities"?  
- given more space we wolud like to see more of...
- **vilage mentality. direct evidence of something being transferred vs narrated that this is something. distinct what of people said rather than authors** 
	- idea is part of their culture and inviting authors to show documentation that common of border crossers across time and space for hundreds of years. 
- **crime netwroks vs organized crime. why does this distinction matters**
	- migration industries. you could advance analysis on expanding on how this is a dialectic. shift/life cycle or stages on this happening. 
	- if there is something particular in VN culture being transmitted, if there are exploiting and gaps one of the opportunities and gaps is the existence of a **black martket even before vietnamese arrival**
			- if you had space, could you say more about this? 
			- 

## My reflections 
 Aren't all countries and groups of people (immigrant and non-) guilty of similar opportunistic crimes? Can't this book be written about any group by just replacing the country name/people involved? What is considered "organized crime"? how is the "revenge/honour homocides" on pg 105 considered organized crime? Isn't this just a crime of revenge? 

## Summary to review with [Phi Hong Su](005.Authors/Su.md)
- Provides overview of viet immigration to CR
- "Modus Operandi" used often
- "village mentality"
- "respectable men" aka "criminal bosses"
- local crime and multi-national crimes
- Beginning on Chapter5, offers readers "models", non-fictional illustrative examples, for how criminal activity would be executed in various situations
- Due to the ubiquitous nature of criminal activities, Vietnamese organizations and people are depicted as all engaging in some kind of semi-illegal activities. blurred lines 
	- fruit/veggie seller, restaurant owner, goods vendor, migration brokers, apartment owners/renters
	- reminds me of how americans believed that "all Viets were VCs and thus the enemy" during the American War in VN
- Viets as opportunists taking advantage of vulnerabilities/loopholes in the Czech system
	- issues on both sides of the border--VN and CR--as playing part in creation of viet criminal system
		- Viet side: 
			- poverty in rural areas
			- broker orgs creating debt
		- Czech Side: 
			- instabilities
				- acceptance and assimilation
				- closing of the border to new migration
				- economic downturns especially in 2008 
- types of viet criminal orgs. 
		- counterfeiting
			- tobacco
			- alcohol
			- legal and identification documents: passports, business papers, payment cards
				- forgeries (passports, driving IDs, container documents (invoices/packing lists))
			- brand name goods
		- drug production
			- cannabis
			- meth
			- pg. 117 just an assumption right?-- that drug dens are associated with the “asian tradition of opium dens”.
		- smuggling
			- drugs
			- pre-cursor drugs, which are legal
			- **wildlife**. psuedo hunts can ship rhinos and tigers back to Czech so parts can be processed and further distrubuted elsewhere. working in conjunction with native Czech's, viets are able to continue operation of these illegal activities
				- rhino horn hunting
					- show of affluence. party drug/gift to high-ranking folks
				- tiger (whole animal). used for same reasons as Rhino above. czech's captive tiger population died, disappeared and decreased mysteriously
					- 
		- violent crime. horizontal, usually affecting other viets. debtors who need to repay back loans and can't--they may also owe substantial amount of debts to brokers back in VN as well. 
			- bộ đội mercenaries who engage in often violent criminal activity independently or hired by others
		- usury 
		- stealing
		- human trafficking



 * Mdnotes File Name: [2020nozinaVietnameseOrganizedCrime](2020nozinavietnameseorganizedcrime)

# Extracted Annotations (2022-01-26)

### p12

> "In the Czech Republic, the Vietnamese diaspora has existed since the 1950s, and the number of its members has steadily grown, especially since the 1989 Velvet Revolution. Currently, approximately 65,000 people of Vietnamese origin are legally living in the country. It is the third biggest Vietnamese diaspora in the EU countries, after those in France and Germany."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:12](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=12))

 stats of views in czech ([note on p.12) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=12)

### p12

["Together with the new immigrants from Vietnam, new kinds of crime have appeared in the CR as well."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=12)Nožina.Kraus 2020:12)

 assuming viet immigration is synonymous with crime ([note on p.12) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=12)

### p14

["At the top, the two components are connected by a special figure, the respected man and criminal boss. Besides this, the part attempts to show that the legal and illegal components are living in a difficult symbiosis, where the contacts are quite frequent. Moreover, the illegal component of the diaspora usually absorbs less successful members of the legal component. Especially the laid-off migrant workers, who lost their jobs because of the 2008 financial crisis and the consequent crisis that followed, became an easy prey for the illegal component of the diaspora."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=12)Nožina.Kraus 2020:14)

 boss at the top.2008 crisis as instrumental for laying off migrant workers and siphoning them into crime ([note on p.14) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=14)

### p14

["More popular criminal activities among the Vietnamese were the illegal production of cigarettes and alcohol, and theft."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=14)Nožina.Kraus 2020:14)

### p14

> "modi operandi"([Nožina.Kraus 2020:14](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=14))

 habits of working.modes of operation. ([note on p.14) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=14)

### p15

["The data collected within the study, especially those collected in recent years, suggest that the traditional image of organised crime (i.e. as criminal activities dominated by centrally controlled organisations with a given hierarchy and a strict division of labour) is outdated. It appears that a better portrayal of organised crime is one in which it is depicted as a collection of offenders and criminal groups that collaborate with each other in varying combinations (Bruinsma and Bernasco 2004: 79)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=14)Nožina.Kraus 2020:15)

 outdated image of organized crime is centralized with hierarchies and strict division of labor. a more accurate  portrayal of organized crime is one where a collection of criminal groups collaborating with each other in varying combinations. ([note on p.15) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=15)

### p16

["According to Finckenauer and Chin (2007), who applied the criminal networks' concept to Asian organised crime, it is important to differentiate genuine "traditional" Asian organised crime from criminal networks. The main difference between the two is that "traditional" crime groups are pre-existing patterns, but concrete crime networks are developed in response to concrete criminal opportunities. The "traditional" crime groups (such as the triads, the yakuza, the chao pho or the geondal) are formalised, rather rigorous groups based on traditional forms—they have their own name, an established "turf", a certain continuity, a relatively stable hierarchical structure and a restricted membership. These groups often use violence to monopolise their illegal markets, some of them have been in existence for centuries, and they are most likely to continue to exist in the future."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=15)Nožina.Kraus 2020:16)

 distinction between “traditional” criminal network. formalized groups with own name (yakuza, triads, etc.), established turf and relatively stabilized hierarchy. ([note on p.16) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=16)

### p16

["In contrast, contemporary diasporic Asian crime networks are developed in and shaped by the social environment in the Asian emigrants' host countries. They usually develop in response to specific criminal opportunities, and their members (participants) are involved in organised criminal activities on an ad hoc basis. They do not have a fixed group name, a territory or a rigid structure. They are highly flexible, and their members act like, and view themselves as, opportunistic businesspeople rather than violent gangsters. Very often, a nuclear or an extended family initiates an operation in response to a new opportunity. Moreover, it is often the case that people from the same village or region or at least from the same ethnic group are recruited to participate as members of a network that may dissolve after the criminal operation it was created for is successfully carried out (Finckenauer and Chin 2007: 13-14, 19)"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=16)Nožina.Kraus 2020:16)

 highly flexible, no centralized location. arising out of necessity and opportunity. “opportunistic businesspeople” than “violent gangsters” ([note on p.16) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=16)

### p17

["(6) the poorly managed migration regimes in combination with various illegal activities that push the migrants into a debt trap, which frequently leads to economic overexploitation of the migrants and their involvement in alternative activities with a possibility of high incomes, that is, crime, and so forth (Cohen 2001: 26, 180-187; Nožina 2010a: 231-232; Kraus 2013: 26)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=16)Nožina.Kraus 2020:17)

 systemic issues pushing migrants towards crime. ([note on p.17) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)

### p17

["In the case of the Vietnamese diaspora in the CR, we argue that the function of criminal networks there and their co-existence with other members of the diaspora are mainly based on the Vietnamese traditional "village mentality" and emigrants' exploitation strategies being transferred to the Western cultural space combined with traditional patterns of Asian criminal societies."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)Nožina.Kraus 2020:17)

 argument is that “village mentality” is root of criminality in viet diaspora in CR.

my question, why has this been isolated to the CR and not seen in other countries such as the largest diasporas (US, AUS, etc). ([note on p.17) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)

### p17

["A traditional Vietnamese considers himself not as an independent individual but as a component within a system of relationships: as a member of the family, and of the village, or in the case of criminals, a member of the criminal gang (Nožina 2000b: 21)"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)Nožina.Kraus 2020:17)

 will they define what a “traditional vietnamese” is? Is this a nationalist? what is the difference? ([note on p.17) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)

### p17

["The Vietnamese researcher Le Xuan Khoa tells us: "The tendency of Indochinese refugees to cluster together and to form community"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)Nožina.Kraus 2020:17)

 tendency of SE Asian refugees is to group together to form communities which is reminiscent of traditional patterned behaviors common to all agrarian societies. 

Strange APA citation. ([note on p.17) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)

### p18

["8 M. Nožina and F. Kraus organisations can be traced back to a traditional pattern of behaviour common to all agrarian societies in Southeast Asia"."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=17)Nožina.Kraus 2020:18)

### p19

> ""mediate""([Nožina.Kraus 2020:19](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=19))

 initial reaction. a lot of “unnecessary” “quotations” around words. ([note on p.19) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=19)

### p19

["the roots of the tolerance of a criminal underground"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=19)Nožina.Kraus 2020:19)

 where is the evidence of a tolerance of roots of criminal background?  ([note on p.19) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=19)

### p19

["we argue that legal and illegal activities are in a dialectical unity in Vietnamese communities."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=19)Nožina.Kraus 2020:19)

 isn’t this true of all communities? what about white collar crime? ([note on p.19) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=19)

## Methodology

### p20

["There are numerous high-quality studies on the problem of the Vietnamese diaspora in the world (Viviani 1984; Kibria 1993; Coughlan 1998; Dorais 2000, 2005; Rutledge 2000; Mazyrin 2004; Blanc 2005; Thomas 2005; Sims 2007). In the EU countries, the problem has been studied especially in Germany (Fritsche 1991; Bui 2003; Wolf 2007), France (Gilles 2004), Poland (Grzymala-Kazlowska 2002; Halik and Nowicka 2002; Iglicka 2005a, b; Halik 2006; Dang 2011) and the Czech Republic (Vasiljev 1989; Nguyen Tung 2001; Brouček 2002, 2003a, 2003b; Martínková 2010; Martínková and Pechová 2010; Martínková et al. 2012; Kušniráková et al. 2013). The majority of the studies discuss the economic, social and cultural aspects of Vietnamese migration and the diasporas' everyday life in general, while almost exclusively focusing on the legal component of the diaspora."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=19)Nožina.Kraus 2020:20)

 research and studies of the viet [[008.Theories and Concepts/concept.diaspora]] in #europe #us #czech #poland #germany and more. #readme ([note on p.20) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=20)

### p21

["However, the problem of Vietnamese criminal networks and their role in the diasporic life has remained only weakly researched. To fill the existing gap, new researches took place within two research projects realised by the IIR in 2007-2019. During these projects, new data were collected through interviews with members of the Czech security forces, NGOs and the Czech administration, and also with members of the Vietnamese diaspora in the CR. The basic idea of the research was to cross the lines of the formerly strict "police" views and to provide a better understanding of the phenomenon by taking into account the role of the organised crime in parallel power structures that were identified within the Vietnamese diaspora living in the CR.2"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=20)Nožina.Kraus 2020:21)

 this research fuses police and administrative studies and the viet diaspora. and is an english version for a wider audience. ([note on p.21) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=21)

### p22

["The present research was based mainly on primary sources: unpublished reports and documents, and interviews with members of the security forces and foreign services. Especially interviews with members of the Vietnamese community in the Czech Republic and Vietnamese citizens living in Vietnam are considered as valuable sources of information in the research."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=21)Nožina.Kraus 2020:22)

 research is based mainly on primary sources: unpublished reports and documents, interviews with security forces and foreign services. also of viet community in CR and viet living in VN. ([note on p.22) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=22)

### p23

["other data were collected through an analysis of security reports by various police units and through carrying out interviews with members of the Czech security forces"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=22)Nožina.Kraus 2020:23)

 other data collected through security reports of various police units and interviews with members of czech security forces ([note on p.23) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=23)

### p23

["Because of this, the information from police sources frequently pertained to commonly known facts, already solved criminal cases (which ended with one or more individuals being convicted of a crime), or outdated or fragmented data. Another problem was that virtually every"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=23)Nožina.Kraus 2020:23)

 if data is old and fragmented, is it relevant? how old is it?  ([note on p.23) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=23)

### p24

["14 M. Nožina and F. Kraus interview with a member of the security forces had to be permitted and authorised by the responsible leadership of the given security agency. This made the research process extremely inflexible and, in many cases, censorship led to a certain devaluation of the information source."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=23)Nožina.Kraus 2020:24)

### p33

> "According to official statistics of the Vietnamese State Committee of Vietnamese Overseas, there are about 4 million people of Vietnamese descent currently living, working and/or studying in nearly 103 countries and territories around the world. The Viêt Kiều, overseas Vietnamese living in diaspora, are concentrated mainly in 21 countries in North America, North-West Europe, Eastern Europe (including Russia), SouthEast Asia, North-East Asia and Australia. Vietnamese people are also living in other regions, such as South and West Asia, the Middle East, Africa and South America. There are approximately 1.5 million Vietnamese residents in the United States, 250,000 in Canada and 245,000 in Australia (Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Viet Nam 2012: 29). As for Asian countries, it is estimated that 600,000 Vietnamese are living in Cambodia, 200,000 in Tai-wan, 143,000 in South Korea, 136,000 in Japan, and 70,000  in Malaysia. In Europe, approximately 350,000 Vietnamese are living in France, 150,000 in Germany, 140,000 in Russia, 55,000 in the United Kingdom and 50,000 in Poland (Tyabaev et al. 2016: 2)."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:33](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=33))

 #stats on viet #diaspora and [[outward migration]] ([note on p.33) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=33)

### p34

["In the Czech Republic, approximately 65,000 citizens of Vietnam and Czech citizens of Vietnamese origin were legally living in the country in 2018 according to official statistics and estimates (CSO 2018). The number of illegal immigrants from Vietnam is difficult to ascertain, but estimates range from 5000 to 10,000 (PCR-OCDU 2010, 2014, 2015). In this country with 10 million residents, Vietnamese represent the thirdmost numerous immigrant community. Only Ukrainians (113,000) and Slovaks (86,000) are more numerous (GO-CR 2013a, b; CSO 2018)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=33)Nožina.Kraus 2020:34)

 #diaspora [[viet kieu]] in #czech ([note on p.34) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=34)

### p34

["Việt Kiều can be generally divided into four distinct categories. The first category consists of people who have been living outside of Vietnam prior to 1975 (mainly in Cambodia, China, Laos, France, and Canada—particularly Québec) (Bouhier 2005; Blanc 2005: 1159-1162; Nožina and Kraus 2012: 42-43). To the second category belong the Viêt Kiều who escaped Vietnam after the communist takeover in 1975 and their descendants. After the tough experience of life in the refugee camps in Malaysia, Cambodia, Thailand, Hong Kong, the Philippines and Singapore, they were, for the most part, resettled in the industrialised states of North America, Western Europe and Australia (Viviani 1984; Kibria 1993; Coughlan 1998; Rutledge 2000; Vo 2004; Dorais 2005; Thomas 2005; Nožina and Kraus 2012: 26). The third category consists of Vietnamese working and studying in the former communist countries. After the democratic changes at the end of the 1980s, a lot of Vietnamese students and workers who came to these countries in the communist period opted not to return home (Nožina 2010: 230). The fourth category is composed mainly of economic migrants and people who left Vietnam to join their relatives abroad after the start of the đổi mới reform process in Vietnam in 1986. These migrants go to many countries of Europe, Asia,"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=34)Nožina.Kraus 2020:34)

 [[viet kieu]] can be divided into 4 categories:1. pre 1975ers2. refugees3. contract laborers4. economic migrants after 1986 doi moi ([note on p.34) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=34)

### p35

["3 Vietnamese Migration to the Czech Republic... 25 the Middle East and Africa, and also to the United States and Australia (MFA 2009; Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Viet Nam 2012: 16; Thuy Huong 2012)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=34)Nožina.Kraus 2020:35)

### p36

> "The cornerstone of this cooperation was the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) established in 1949."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:36](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=36))

 council of mutual economic assistance (CMEA) ([note on p.36) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=36)

### p36

["Especially in the 1980s, thousands of Vietnamese workers were exported within the so-called assistance program for the suffering Vietnam organised by the CMEA"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=36)Nožina.Kraus 2020:36)

 assistance program for migrant workers established by CMEA. ([note on p.36) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=36)

### p37

["Although official data on this does not exist, it is estimated that between 70,000 and 120,000 Vietnamese participated in the programme and around 30,000 Vietnamese had been living in Czechoslovakia at any moment within the period of 1980-1989."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=36)Nožina.Kraus 2020:37)

 70k - 120k viets participated in labor migration program during 1980-1989 ([note on p.37) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=37)

### p38

["In the second half of the 1980s, however, the programme gradually declined and both sides started to widely exploit the situation. Czechoslovakia employed Vietnamese workers in unpopular and low-paying jobs, and the Vietnamese co-ordinators of the programme were engaged in the organisation of paid migration and black-market activities. Especially in the second half of the 1980s, the "quality" of the workers gradually declined because of the low interest in the programme among potential volunteers, and the selection became formal. Some rumours of the Vietnamese police collecting new "volunteers" among juvenile delinquents on Hanoi and Saigon streets circulated at the time (Nožina 2003a: 190)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=37)Nožina.Kraus 2020:38)

 labor migration program fell into decline in late 1980s and both sides of the soviet blocs (VN and Czechoslovakia) began exploiting the situation. 

Czech employed viets in unpopular low-wage jobs. Viet coordinators engaged in paid migration and black-market schemes. Rumors of viet police that juvenile delinquents on Hanoi/Saigon were new candidates for this unpopular program.  ([note on p.38) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=38)

### p39

["eyewitnesses, namely several former employees of Prague Airport who were interviewed in 1999, in the second half of the 1980s, special aeroplanes used to land at Prague's Old Ruzyně Airport (which was usually used for receptions of foreign delegations, military purposes, charter flights, etc.) loaded with Asian goods. This went on under the supervision of the Vietnamese Embassy employees. The goods were immediately reloaded into lorries and transported out of the airport without any contact with Czech customs. After a few days, they appeared on the black market (Nožina 2003a: 190-191)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=38)Nožina.Kraus 2020:39)

 second half of 1980s were possible beginnings of illegal operation in response to declining wages and further economic hardships. 

airlines loaded with counterfeit goods flying and landing in Czech airfields reserved for diplomats and high-ranking folks. under supervision of viet embassy. then loaded onto lorries and shipped to different parts of europe. ([note on p.39) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=39)

### p39

["In the opposite direction, mainly bicycles, small motorcycles and sewing machines were transported in planes officially chartered for transportation of workers coming back to Vietnam. It is not clear how the commodities with fake Western trademarks produced in Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia and so forth were smuggled to Vietnam, but the black-market trade networks between the Asian countries and Czechoslovakia via Hanoi have lasted for years (PCR-OCDU 1999). The 1989 democratic changes in Eastern Europe only opened doors for further acceleration of the trade."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=39)Nožina.Kraus 2020:39)

 two way trade going on. from czech to vietnam, along with migrant workers on their return, bikes, seeing machines were transported and then fake western trademarks on them from taiwan, singapore, hong kong, indonesia.  ([note on p.39) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=39)

### p39

["The final amount of money paid for a transfer from Vietnam to another country depends on the number of required services, but the amount of money needed to solve the problems of the administrative process usually ranges from US$4000 to US$20,000 in the Czech Republic, but it can rise up to US$40,000—or even US$50,000 when the final destination is a more attractive West European country such as the United Kingdom (MI 2007; VCS 2009-2013, 2017, 2019; Smatana 2017; PCR-NCAOC Report 2018a:17; Quynh Le 2019)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=39)Nožina.Kraus 2020:39)

 #irregular means of migration ([note on p.39) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=39)

### p40

["In the majority of cases, the fees must be paid even before any process leading to the emigrant's departure (legal or illegal) starts. In cases of illegal transfers, the emigrant's family in Vietnam pays the fee according to the location of the migrant at the time or upon the migrant's arrival at the final destination (VCS 2009, 2012, 2019). To obtain the required amount of money, the migrant must collect money from his family members or borrow the money from various financial institutions, including informal ones. This is so particularly in some poorer localities, such as Nghe An Province, Ha Tinh Province, and Quang Binh Province, from where a substantial part of the migrants to the Czech Republic is recruited (Nožina and Kraus 2012: 119)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=39)Nožina.Kraus 2020:40)

 [[labor migrants]] research. #irregular migration ([note on p.40) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=40)

### p40

["So why are a lot of Vietnamese people willing to dip their families into a big debt and run a high risk of losing all of their family's property? The reasons lie in the economic situation of Vietnam, the efforts of many ordinary Vietnamese to improve their lives and ensure a better future for their children, the Vietnamese government's policy of support of economic migration abroad, and the dubious activities of numerous broker agencies profiting from the migration. During the 1980s, as a result of the three wars in Indochina, an inefficient state-planned economy, and the bad politico-economic situation in the Communist Eastern Bloc, the Vietnamese economy stood over its own perdition. Due to the ill-realised land and financial reforms, people from many Vietnamese provinces faced starvation or great economic difficulties (The Economist 2002; Crosette 1988). The GDP per capita did not reach US$200 (Nožina and Kraus 2012: 83), the annual rate of inflation soared to over 700% and the value of Vietnamese exports did not constitute even half of the total value of the country's imports, which barely reached US$1221 million. Due to military expenditures, the budget resources were almost depleted, government revenues were low and the fiscal deficit was large and persistent (Arkadie and Mallon 2003: 67). As a result of the bad economic situation, wide-scale reforms (đổi mới) were launched at Hanoi's Sixth Communist Party Congress in December 1986. The resulting new Vietnamese economic model, which can be characterised as a multi-sector socialist-oriented market economy using both directive and indicative planning, was partly successful. The economic situation of Vietnam improved in the coming years; however, a"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=40)Nožina.Kraus 2020:40)

### p41

> "3 Vietnamese Migration to the Czech Republic... 31 number of new economic and social problems were born under the new conditions, affecting primarily the lower strata of Vietnamese society. Old Communist ideas about the equality of people fell into oblivion and the đổi mới reforms transformed the Vietnamese early socialist welfare state into a type of transitional hybrid economic-political system, which G. Vidal characterised as "free enterprise for the poor and socialism for the rich" (Vidal 1972: 153). On one hand, a new political-economic elite benefitting from đổi mới was born in Vietnam, and on the other hand, the increasing costs and devaluing currency started to push low-paid workers and low-income families into poverty. The differences between the poor and the rich in Vietnam have deepened since the introduction of this policy. According to an analysis of the Institute of Social Sciences Information in Hanoi, currently in Vietnam an income of a rich family is 25 times higher than an income of a poor household. Many families, especially in the countryside, still fail to achieve a decent standard of living (Nožina and Kraus 2012: 87)."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:41](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=41))

 rationale for [[labor migrants]] taking part in #irregular migration. the corruption of democratic govt of vietnam and the rise of doi moi policy.  ([note on p.41) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=41)

### p42

["After more than three decades of đổi mới, despite the economic recovery and continuing economic growth, Vietnam remains a country where, in the words of Angsuthanasombat (2008: 2), "poverty, unemployment, limited access to education, and a desire among people to improve their lifestyles are all strong push factors for Vietnamese to go and work abroad"."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=41)Nožina.Kraus 2020:42)

 even after doi moi [[doi moi]] there is a strong push for local viet to “go and work abroad”.  ([note on p.42) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=42)

### p43

["Vietnamese government incorporated foreign investment and economic migration into its new economic strategy and relaxed migration prohibition regimes. This policy was highly successful. Currently, approximately 500,000 Vietnamese workers are working abroad in more than 40 countries and territories worldwide while supporting their families back home. These countries include the Czech Republic, Taiwan, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Russia and Australia, among others (Nožina and Kraus 2012: 121-123; Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Viet Nam 2012: 22-27). Between 1993 and 2014, Viet Nam's total received remittances were about US$96.66 billion, with an average rate of US$4.4 billion per year, accounting for 6.8% of the country's gross domestic product (GDP). The remittances reached US$712 billion in 2014, which places the country among the top eleven remittance recipient countries in the word (Vietnamnet 2015). It can be expected that the interest of the Vietnamese government in the profits coming from economic migration will continue in the future in the light of these numbers."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=42)Nožina.Kraus 2020:43)

 #stats of relaxed state laws on [[labor migrants]] out of viet nam ([note on p.43) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=43)

### p43

["The strong interest of the Vietnamese people in economic migration and the governmental support created a broad operation space for various agents organising the migration. The agents recruit the migrants, process their visa and working permits, execute their transfers, and provide vocational and basic language training to them. The research revealed that extensive advertisement and recruiting activities for working abroad are organised in poor regions where many potential emigrants live. The advertising process has both formal and informal procedures"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=43)Nožina.Kraus 2020:43)

 implies that recruiters prey on poor regions where potential emigrants live. ([note on p.43) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=43)

### p44

["This creates the illusion that in the CR it would be relatively easy to earn a substantial amount of money in a relatively short time. As such, the CR became a popular destination of Vietnamese economic migration (MFA 2010, 2013; Brouček 2003b; Martínková 2007; Mai Thi Thu 2013; Kraus 2013). As one member of the Vietnamese community in the Czech Republic commented: "The desire to come back home and celebrate the New Year as a Vietnamese living in the Czech Republic is simply irresistible. These guys are always well dressed and they are giving out American dollars and luxury presents to all their relatives and kinsmen" (Trang Tran Thu 2008). The "Promised Land" picture is supported also by various official and unofficial agencies engaged in the migrants' transfers. These agencies distribute false information about wages, job opportunities, and/or working and living conditions in the host countries. During the recruiting process, the job agencies usually promise stable jobs, relatively high salaries and good working conditions, the likes of which even the locals in the Czech Republic would never achieve (Nožina and Kraus 2012: 121-123). They also make use of associates working in various companies, schools, offices or other institutions for advertising their services. The negative impacts of the migration are commented upon only marginally. The internet and social media increasingly play a role in the recruitment phase (VCS 2019; Europol 2018: 19). The situation is slightly better on the unofficial internet social networks, where negative aspects of migration are sometimes discussed (VCS 2019)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=43)Nožina.Kraus 2020:44)

 migrants who return to VN during new years give illusion of being rich. faking their wealth during new years. spoiling people with red envelopes and lavish gifts gives the impression of a get rich quick scheme. even though migrants work long hours often in exploitative work. ([note on p.44) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=44)

### p44

["Another problem is that on the local level, the recruitment for individual migration abroad is frequently provided through the same channels as government information about the export labour policies, or more"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=44)Nožina.Kraus 2020:44)

 [[labor migrants]] #thestate #state overseas migration and temporary work abroad activities and policies based on labor contracts are supported by the state government. village administration and local leaders show support for these since they align with the governmental policy.  ([note on p.44) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=44)

### p45

["3 Vietnamese Migration to the Czech Republic... 35 specifically the policies pertaining to temporary work abroad on the basis of labour contracts supported by the Vietnamese government. Since the export of labour is in accordance with governmental directions, local leaders show supportive attitudes towards various agencies' worker recruitments as well, regardless of the agencies' background. As a village leader from a village in Central Vietnam commented: "Well, when the beaters from Hanoi come to our place, they first come and talk to the village administration. Then, the people get the information through the village officials. Almost every month, the officials arrange a meeting to announce the village's activities, party directions and relevant politics. When this policy came out, the officials encouraged people to join other labourers going abroad. They were and still are targeting especially those from poor families and then those workers who have experience with work in the required industries" (Mai Thi Thu 2013: 51)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=44)Nožina.Kraus 2020:45)

### p46

> "In addition, the Vietnamese diaspora in the CR was deeply affected by the changes. The good relationship between the Czech Republic and Vietnam evaporated. On the basis of existing agreements, some new students and workers were sent to the Czech Republic up until 1992, but new contracts were not made in this regard (Nožina 2003a: 191-192). In the new economy, Czech companies lost their interest in Vietnamese workers as well."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:46](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=46))

 end of the1980s ushered in a time of deep political, social, and economic changes for CR due to dissolution of communist empire. this also meant big changes for viet population as czech companies also lost interest in viet workers. ([note on p.46) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=46)

### p46

["As their scholarships and working contracts were terminated, Vietnamese people lost their legal status in the CR. The Czech government offered reimbursements to those who were willing to go back to Vietnam before the end of their contract, but the majority decided to stay or emigrate further to Western Europe. In 1990, approximately 20,000 Vietnamese lived in the country (PCR-OCDU 1999). Some of them established themselves very well in the country, married local girls, learned the Czech language and established their own business enterprises. These "old settlers" became the base for a new wave of economic migrants in the early 1990s."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=46)Nožina.Kraus 2020:46)

 viets lost legal status as scholarships and working contracts ended. in 1990 20,000 stayed in CR even though czech gov’t would reimburse viets to return. 

these “old settlers” became the base of migrants in early 1990s. ([note on p.46) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=46)

### p47

["After 2006, the Czech Republic was reopened to labour migration from Vietnam. The chance to make money abroad attracted thousands of Vietnamese workers to the Czech Republic. Even though the labour migration was restricted in the years 2008-2010 due to the economic crisis, and the immigration regime was further tightened, the interest of Vietnamese citizens in economic migration to the Czech Republic continues. The research revealed that the image of the CR as a "Promised Land" is still popular among the Vietnamese people (Nožina and Kraus 2017: 16)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=46)Nožina.Kraus 2020:47)

 #connected to #myresearch labor migration tightened during 2008 economic crisis, but CR was still the image of a “promised land” to viets. my #informants still left CR to go to viet nam. ([note on p.47) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=47)

### p47

["On the Vietnamese side, the key moments in these processes occurred in 1986, when the border controls in Vietnam were relaxed; then in 1994, when the Vietnamese government started a new economic programme officially promoting exportation of the labour force; and finally in 2006, when the Vietnamese government enacted the Law on Overseas Workers, which formally institutionalised labour exports (Dang Nguyen Anh 2000; HRW 2009: 15-18; Thuy Huong 2012; Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Viet Nam 2012: 9; Jalilian and Reyes 2012: 365)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=47)Nožina.Kraus 2020:47)

 #stats on relaxing of border controls of the #state of VN. 1986 beginning and then 1994 when state promotes exportation of labor force. [[labor migrants]] ([note on p.47) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=47)

### p47

["On the Czech side, one can identify several periods of migration regimes since 1989: the liberal period of 1990-1995 when the economy and society in the CR were open and only weakly regulated, and there were favourable conditions for Vietnamese migration; the restrictive period of 1996-2004 when economic conditions were still favourable but the administrative control was tightened, and new immigration regulations were promulgated and gradually enforced (especially in the"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=47)Nožina.Kraus 2020:47)

 1989-2016: migration rules from czech side.  ([note on p.47) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=47)

### p48

["38 M. Nožina and F. Kraus period of consolidation of 2000-2004); the neo-liberal period of 2005-2007 (or 2008), a period of economic prosperity in which the demand of Czech companies for foreign workers led to a relaxation of the strict immigrant regimes and allowed almost uncontrolled labour migration from Vietnam; the neo-restrictive period of 2008-2015, which was connected to the economic crisis of 2008/2009, in which the state tightened the migration control again, including the restriction of migration from Vietnam; and 2016-present, when the state administrative controls have continued to be tight, but the influx of migrants and guest workers from Vietnam has tacitly continued on a lesser scale (Baršová and Barša 2005: 221-226; Kušniráková and Čižinský 2011: 498; Smatana 2017). Due to the changing socio-economic and political situations in Vietnam and the Czech Republic, various modi operandi of Vietnamese migrants' transfers to the CR were developed over time. Legal transfers organised by individuals and unlicenced agencies that were broadly exploiting gaps in the Czech legal system prevailed in the early 1990s. In the restrictive consolidation period 1996-2004 the semi-legal transfers gained in importance. Also the smuggling of people across the "green line" (illegal crossing of borders) was frequent mainly in the second half of the 1990s and still continues today, but with a lower intensity (Nožina and Kraus 2016: 519). Licenced labour agencies became a vehicle of transfers mainly in the years 2008-2010, but they were again replaced in the leading position by organisers of semi-legal and illegal transfers after this period."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=47)Nožina.Kraus 2020:48)

### p50

> "As a result, the prevailing pattern of Vietnamese migration during the early 1990s was as follows: a man arrived at Czechoslovakia/the Czech Republic with a tourist visa that had been issued without obstacles at the Czech Embassy in Hanoi. After his arrival, the migrant, independently or with the help of friends or a dich vu agency, arranged a permanent address in the CR and applied for a business licence. On the basis of these two documents, a permanent residence permit was automatically issued to him. The type of visa used for the emigrant's arrival was not crucial for establishing a permanent residence (PCR-OCDU 2007)."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:50](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=50))

 a nice visual account of how someone could gain permanent residency in CR in early 1990s. ([note on p.50) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=50)

### p50

["During this and the subsequent period, the individual "old settlers" and agencies provided newcomers with a legal base in the form of official residence and business addresses. It was quite common that security forces disclosed, for example, a small house with three rooms on a periphery of a small town that served as a business address for 60 Vietnamese "companies". Also, as many as 30 people could have an official address in a small apartment consisting of a single room (PCR-OCDU 2007)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=50)Nožina.Kraus 2020:50)

 how viet “tourist-businessmen” exploited a loophole in CR system where one address could be used for 60 “companies” and 30 people using an “official address in a small single-room apartment” ([note on p.50) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=50)

### p51

["According to information from the Czech Embassy in Hanoi, there were 164 licenced agencies officially dealing with the export of Vietnamese labourers to the Czech Republic in 2008; however, "only" 54 of them were really active in the exports (MFA 2008). These licenced labour agencies were organised similarly as the unlicenced ones, providing entrance visas and transportation, and legalising the migrants' stays in the Czech Republic. In Vietnam, there were agencies that were responsible for recruiting workers, worker training, obtaining working visas and the transfer of the workers into the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, there were partner labour agencies that were responsible for the distribution of workers according to the momentary needs of Czech companies and practically the whole agenda regarding the employment of their clients (Nožina and Kraus 2012: 122). According to Vietnamese sources, the agencies usually charged US$6500-15,000 for their services in 2007-2010. The export of the labour force was therefore profitable, and the agencies were interested in importing as many workers as possible, regardless of the needs of the Czech labour market. It was a major fault of the Czech immigration policy that the Czech Government was not able to introduce any effective control of the Vietnamese labour agencies' activities and predominantly focused its attention only on the visa regimes. This strategy soon backfired. Mainly the weakly controlled agencies' imports of labourers caused a dramatic increase in the number of Vietnamese residents in the Czech Republic, as it increased by 20,000 persons (approximately one-third of the diaspora),"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=50)Nožina.Kraus 2020:51)

 viets exploited fault in CR system and an explosion of viets immigrated to CR in 2007-2008. 20k, about 1/3 of the diaspora in CR at that point. 

this group were workers/peasants, which were socially and culturally different from former, predominantly business-oriented old settlers. ([note on p.51) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=51)

### p52

["42 M. Nožina and F. Kraus with the most significant part of this increase occurring in 2007 and 2008 (Martínková and Pechová 2010: 20, 21; Nožina and Kraus 2012: 135). Most of these people were workers or peasants—a group of people socially and culturally different from the predominantly businessoriented old settlers, who were already much better adapted to the Czech environment. It seriously destabilised the socio-economic situation in the Vietnamese community in the Czech Republic (Martínková and Pechová 2010: 20, 21; Nožina and Kraus 2012: 135)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=51)Nožina.Kraus 2020:52)

### p52

> "In this period, the average salary of a Vietnamese worker was approximately CZK 14,000 (€550), including overtime work."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:52](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=52))

 this is monthly? ([note on p.52) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=52)

### p53

["The situation reached a critical level especially after the breakout of the financial and consequent economic crisis of 2008-2010, during which Czech companies massively dismissed many foreign workers. However, the labour agencies were still recruiting new workers in Vietnam and collected high brokerage fees—even when it was clear that there were no available jobs in the Czech Republic. As a result, thousands of Vietnamese workers were caught in a social trap. In the Czech Republic they lost their jobs, and they did not have the means to live in the Czech Republic, but they could not go home because before their arrival in the country, they had to pay a very high brokerage fee and thus they were highly indebted. In many cases, they had to mortgage all the possessions of their families. For them, to go home meant to lose their homes and fields."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=52)Nožina.Kraus 2020:53)

 reached a critical apex when high number of viets come to CR but the 2008 financial crisis stops migration. brokerage companies still exploit the situation and deceive immigrants in VN that there is still opportunities in CR. they go over, with high fees, mortgage their homes and belongings only to arrive in CR with no feasible work.  ([note on p.53) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=53)

### p56

["Counterfeiting activities are frequent in this context. Interestingly, in the 1990s, the most prevalent Vietnamese counterfeiting activity was the falsification of passports and driving licences. Today, probably the most frequently forged documents are flawless criminal records from the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, which are needed for applying for a visa or visa extension in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, various vocational certificates and documents that serve as evidence of formal qualifications, birth and marriage certificates and proofs of cash deposits at European banks (which are required for residence permits in the Czech Republic) are also often counterfeited (PCR-OCDU 2007, 2011; PCR-NCAOC 2018). In many cases, the clients have had no idea that the agency is supporting the visa application with forged documents, and they suppose that they are paying for a fully legal transfer (VCS 2009, 2012)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=53)Nožina.Kraus 2020:56)

 agencies counterfeiting and falsifying documents on behalf of client but the client has no idea that they’re doing it. ([note on p.56) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=56)

### p60

["People-smuggling routes from Germany to the Czech Republic were established as well. Since 1989, the Czech Republic faced two strong Vietnamese migration waves from Germany. In 1991, the German government decided to pay 3000 marks to Vietnamese migrant workers if they left the country before the expiration of their contracts. Many of them accepted the money, but instead of returning to Vietnam, they migrated to the CR. The second wave occurred in the mid-1990s, after the German and Vietnamese governments signed a repatriation agreement. Consequently, many "German" Vietnamese who were in Germany illegally emigrated to the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Russia or Canada. The "German" Vietnamese who settled in the CR currently live in areas near the German border (Cheb, Potůčky) and also in Prague (VCS 2007, 2016, 2019)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=56)Nožina.Kraus 2020:60)

 people smuggling routes from germany to czech. 1991 german govt paid 3000 marks to viet migrants to return to VN before their contracts ended. viets took the money but instead traveled to CR.  ([note on p.60) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=60)

### p60

["The newcomers know that if they come to the United Kingdom, they will have a good chance to secure a good job and earn a"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=60)Nožina.Kraus 2020:60)

 #research and #stats of [[labor migrants]] going to UK ([note on p.60) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=60)

### p61

["3 Vietnamese Migration to the Czech Republic... 51 lot of money to send back to their families in Vietnam because there is a high demand for low-skilled labour in Vietnamese restaurants, nail salons, the illicit cannabis industry and so forth (Quynh Le 2019)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=60)Nožina.Kraus 2020:61)

### p61

> "As Tang and Nguyen (2017: 39-40) report in their field survey, Calais in France is the central hub of the migrants' passage across the channel to the United Kingdom. There are several networks organising the migrants' crossings. Among the Vietnamese migrants headed to the United Kingdom, there are many workers who previously migrated to Russia and the countries of the former Communist bloc in Eastern Europe, including the Czech Republic. The low pay and difficult economic situation in these countries prompted them to migrate again to Western Europe in the hope of improving their income (ibid.: 46-48)."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:61](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=61))

 #research on illegal and irregular migration routs of [[labor migrants]] ([note on p.61) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=61)

### p61

["According to the United Nations Economic and Social Council's estimates, the Vietnamese networks are smuggling around 18,000 people a year to Europe (Bierbach 2019). Vietnamese migrants to Europe may have generated US$300 million a year for the smugglers and thus, the smugglers are interested in continuing in this profitable business (Quynh Le 2019)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=61)Nožina.Kraus 2020:61)

 18k viets smuggled to europe per year. ([note on p.61) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=61)

### p70

["On the Czech side, the "ghettoization" was supported by frequent prejudices on the part of the majority of society towards immigrants, by a lack of state efforts to integrate the diaspora into the majority of society (Pechová 2007: 15, 17) and also by a certain incapability of Czech administrative and security forces to deal with various irregularities within the diaspora (Seďa 2013: 38)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=61)Nožina.Kraus 2020:70)

 chapter on diaspora in CR. experiences of discriminational and “ghettoization”. ([note on p.70) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=70)

### p74

["Czech Government launched Program of Voluntary Repatriations in 2009 which was supposed to help the indebted foreigners who lost their jobs in the CR with a return to their homelands. Only a few Vietnamese participated, however, in the program (iDnes 2009; MI 2010). The majority preferred to stay in Europe and to re-unite with their relatives in the CR and in the other EU countries. After the economic situation improved, some of the workers returned to their designated employers in the CR, but many of the people opted for"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=70)Nožina.Kraus 2020:74)

 2009 program of voluntary reparations to aid foreign viet workers struggling. would pay for flights home. but many did not take them up on the offer.

many would use the 2008 crisis to begin a life of criminality. ([note on p.74) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=74)

### p75

["4 The World of the Vietnamese Diaspora in the CR 65 alternative job opportunities and transformed themselves into the illegal component of the diaspora,1 sometimes directly involved in criminal activities and structures (VCS 2010; Nožina and Kraus 2012: 136)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=74)Nožina.Kraus 2020:75)

### p75

> "The number of members of the Vietnamese diaspora in the CR rose from 52,612 in 2011 to 60,745 in 2018. In June 2014, as many as 18.2% of the diaspora consisted of children that were born in the CR. The number of Vietnamese residents in the CR who kept the citizenship of the Vietnam Socialist Republic also fell from more than 90% to 71.9% (CSO 2014). These figures indicate the ongoing integration of the diaspora into the main society."([Nožina.Kraus 2020:75](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=75))

 #stats and #figures of viet diaspora in CR as of 2018 ([note on p.75) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=75)

### p75

["Moreover, the Czech media, possibly in order to counterbalance xenophobic attitudes on the Czech political scene, portrayed the diaspora's second generation as extremely successful members of the majority society that are supposed to became a part of the Czech elite in the future (Damianová 2014: 47; Srnec 2015: 35). As such, despite a chronic lack of meaningful integrational polices in the CR (Pechová 2007: 15, 17), it is safe to argue that integration of the diaspora into the majority society will slowly, but steadily, continue."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=75)Nožina.Kraus 2020:75)

 although czech media portrays viet 2nd generation as successful, there is a lack of meaningful integration policies that really allow viet to #integrate into CR fabric. ([note on p.75) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=75)

### p76

["As a result, the Vietnamese diaspora became socially differentiated into three main social groups. According to the Vietnamese residents themselves, the three groups are the thóc (literally "grain of rice"—a term used to refer to less well-established residents from a poor farming background), the xù mộc (older settlers from communist times) and the doanh nghiệp mới (new businesspeople) (Pechová 2007: 17, 18; Nožina 2010: 245; Nožina and Kraus 2016: 139).2 The lowest strata of the diaspora, that is, poorly established migrants called gà ("poultry", meaning bumpkins) or thóc ("grains of rice", meaning poor farmers), consist of newcomers and immigrant workers who are usually paying off their debts related to the move to the CR and the high brokerage fees or who are working for other members of the diaspora, and/or who stay in the country illegally. Street dealers of goods, waiters in Vietnamese or Chinese restaurants, and workers in legal/illegal manufacturing workshops are the most typical of those at the bottom of the Vietnamese immigrant hierarchy. These people create an everlasting source of recruits for the illegal component of the diaspora, and easy prey for its activities (Trung Ta Minh 2002: 17; Pechová 2007, 18; Nožina and Kraus 2012: 139; Kušniráková et al. 2013: 32, 33; Srnec 2015, 48)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=75)Nožina.Kraus 2020:76)

 3 differentiated groups in CR society:1. ga (chicken) / thoc: grain of rice, less well-established residents, poor famers2. xu moc: old settlers from communist times3. doanh nhiep moi: new business people ([note on p.76) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=76)

### p80

["The second generation, that is, the children (of Vietnamese parents) born or educated in the CR, provides a very different picture. At the moment of birth, they are granted Czech citizenship and go through the Czech educational system. As a result, they are fully integrated into the majority society, do not consider life in the CR as a business opportunity, but identify themselves as Czech-Vietnamese (Brouček 2002: 23-26). At the same time, they do not have strong ties with Vietnam as their parents (Nožina and Kraus 2012: 139; VCS 2007). This all and the generation gap produces its own consequences."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=76)Nožina.Kraus 2020:80)

 2nd gen czech are granted birth-right citizenship. do not consider life in CR as business opportunity. ([note on p.80) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=80)

### p80

["The second generation is already more integrated into the majority society and is not subject to the parallel power structures within the diaspora. It is reasonable expectation that if these people become part of the elite within the majority society, as some media predict (Třešňák 2004), they will be able to replace the traditional diaspora elites and change the relations of power within it; the parallel power structures will be further weakened and the diaspora will be more open to the majority society."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=80)Nožina.Kraus 2020:80)

 2nd gen and parallel power structures. what does this mean? #ask phi ([note on p.80) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=80)

### p80

["4.3  The Illegal Component of the Diaspora"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=80)Nožina.Kraus 2020:80)

 illegal component starts here ([note on p.80) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=80)

### p82

["Many Indochinese people have the so-called village mentality based on the traditional belief that the community's internal mechanisms are able to settle internal problems more efficiently than the state administration (Hickey 1964: 276-278). This superstition was transplanted into the Vietnamese diasporic life in the CR where it, in the form of parallel power structures to the state administration, functions as a mechanism in the informal setting of the business and security issues within the diaspora. The mentality usually reveals itself in situations when, over the course of a criminal investigation, police officers in the Czech Republic meet with affirmation from members of the Vietnamese community: "Don't worry. We will deal with the problem on our own and we will solve the situation". In many cases, the statement will be fulfilled (PCR-OCDU 2008)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=80)Nožina.Kraus 2020:82)

 village mentality where problems of legality are solved by members of the viet community. ([note on p.82) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=82)

### p84

["A specific category in the world of Vietnamese crime is bộ đôi: "soldiers" or "mercenaries". Bộ đội(s) are recruited from unsuccessful emigrants, juvenile gangs and criminal delinquents which are at the bottom of the illegal component of the diaspora."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=82)Nožina.Kraus 2020:84)

 bo doi mercenaries in the CR carrying out illegal component. lower rung folks who couldn’t fit in. ([note on p.84) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=84)

### p85

["The Czech security forces identify three important Vietnamese centres—Prague, Brno and Cheb where legal and illegal activities are routinely merged together (PCR-OCDU 2007; VCS 2007; Jakšík 2003: 40)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=84)Nožina.Kraus 2020:85)

 prague, brno, and cheb as main/important viet centers of legal and illegal activities are merged. ([note on p.85) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=85)

### p90

["Juvenile gangs represent another special group of criminal delinquents. Their members, usually Vietnamese of the second generation mostly born in the CR, are concentrated around discos and nightclubs (Nožina 2010: 251). As a member of the community puts it: There are really a lot of those juvenile gangs and they are always fighting... I do not understand them. They are just a few years younger than me, but they are living in another dimension.... They belong to the generation "Chin X" that was imported with those new people from Vietnam, but it is all over Asia, a specific style, eccentric behavior... The young Vietnamese, who have no one to follow here in the CR, are associated with this shit—not a Vietnamese one, but Asian.... (VCS 2008; Nožina and Kraus 2012: 151)"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=85)Nožina.Kraus 2020:90)

 juvenile gangs of the 2nd generation. concentrated around discos and nightclubs. ([note on p.90) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=90)

### p99

["Vietnamese Criminal Activities in the Czech Republic"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=90)Nožina.Kraus 2020:99)

 details on criminal activity. better written compared to previous chapters. ([note on p.99) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=99)

### p120

["5.6  Trade in People, Prostitution"(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=99)Nožina.Kraus 2020:120)

 human trafficking ([note on p.120) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=120)

### p127

["This practice of drug distribution and use was probably based on the Asian tradition of opium dens which operated in colonial Indochina."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=120)Nožina.Kraus 2020:127)

 just an assumption right that drug dens are associated with the “asian tradition of opium dens”.  ([note on p.127) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=127)

### p134

["Conspicuously consumed by newly wealthy Asian elites, rhino horn is also used to demonstrate affluence and social status, both as a party drug and as a luxury gift to important political officials or newlyweds (Emslie and Brooks 1999: 25-28; WildAid 2014: 6; TRAFFIC 2013)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=127)Nožina.Kraus 2020:134)

 Rhino horn as party drug and luxury gift. display of affluence ([note on p.134) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=134)

### p135

["This was the case of many Vietnamese citizens who have hunted more than 400 rhinos legally throughout South Africa between 2003 and 2012 (Emslie et al. 2012: 7)."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=134)Nožina.Kraus 2020:135)

 legal hunting of 400 rhinos in south africa by viet between 2003-2012. ([note on p.135) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=135)

### p150

["A positive tendency was that as of the beginnings of the 2000s, the slow integration of many Vietnamese diaspora members into the majority society could be observed. Vietnamese merchants began to abandon stall and open restaurants and convenient shops all over the CR. A second generation of the Vietnamese diaspora also appeared in the CR. By 2006, the data collected within the diaspora displayed a slow, but steady tendency to weaken the parallel power structures and better integration into the majority society. Unfortunately, another disruption in the slowly settling security situation came with the 2008 financial and economic crisis. Just two years before the crisis, the Czech job market was opened up to the Vietnamese labour force, and some 20,000 Vietnamese migrant workers appeared in the CR. Almost all of them lost their jobs after the 2008 financial, and consequent economic, crisis. The economic situation within the diaspora was also downgraded because of the economic crisis. Those at the economic margins of the diaspora, such as the migrant workers and the newcomers, frequently opted for "an alternative way of economic survival" in this situation. As a consequence of their desperate economic situation, they joined the illegal part of the diaspora and were engaged in the production of illegal cigarettes and alcohol, the growing of cannabis, violent crimes such as racketeering and various forms of intimidation and so forth. The illegal component of the diaspora was provided with new manpower and this contributed to its further permutations."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=135)Nožina.Kraus 2020:150)

 2006 ushered in a new wave of immigrants. during this time the diaspora were able to carve a place for themselves. 

2008 economic crisis ended this abruptly. viets lost their jobs. pushing them into criminality.

#myresearch looks at this parallel phenomenon with VKs from western countries moving into VN at this time. the 2008 crisis affected VN differently than it did western countries. more jobs were created esp. for VKs returning to find economic stability. their degrees and skills not affording them advantages in their birth homes, but when in VN they translated to something powerful. #research the opposite occurrence  where degrees for Viets and other immigrants from countries positioned lower geopolitically are not transferred equally nor accepted in countries positioned higher geopolitically.  ([note on p.150) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=150)

### p153

["It is also evident that the national strategy for fighting Vietnamese crime should include not only efficient legal, administrative and security measures, but also strategies for "opening" the Vietnamese diaspora to communication with the wider society. Vietnamese residents in the CR still hold a questionable position within the majority society which can be characterised by prejudices, communication and culture barriers, frequent semi-legal and illegal residence statuses, a restricted or marginal and sometimes illegal position on the labour market or in the national economy and so forth. Even Vietnamese businessmen, or university degree holders such as lawyers, economists or physicians, do not enjoy as much prestige as their Czech counterparts. The members of the diaspora correspondingly do not trust the Czech authorities, and a relatively strong tendency to solve the problems within the diaspora can still be seen. This all pushes the members of the diaspora under the influence of parallel power structures inside the Asian community and crime networks."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=150)Nožina.Kraus 2020:153)

 a potential solution to reducing/eliminating viet crime should be figuring out how to integrate? or weave viets into the Czech national fabric. they are still marginalized and don’t both sides don’t trust each other. #assimilation #belonging [[033.Chapter3_natal identity and belonging]] ([note on p.153) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=153)

### p154

["The business activities outside the diaspora's "ghettos", together with the appearance of the diaspora second generation (or perhaps better to say the appearance of the first Vietnamese Czech people), generate forces that are capable of significantly changing the power structures within the diaspora, weakening the parallel power structures ruling the diaspora and adding new social categories into the diaspora's social life. There will always be of course a group of people that will be relatively isolated from the main society and thus vulnerable to various forms of socio-economic subjectivation. The majority of the diaspora will continue, however, to integrate into the majority society and the influence of parallel power structures within the diaspora will further deteriorate. The second and third generations of young Czech-Vietnamese are, and will continue to constitute, a specific social group living—more or less—outside the "old" diasporic structures. This provides us with a chance to eliminate the role of parallel power structures and crime networks in the Vietnamese diaspora."(](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=153)Nožina.Kraus 2020:154)

 #czech #2nd and #3rd gen viets as hope for the viet diaspora in CR ([note on p.154) ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/M7MZLJQH?page=154)



