
## Source
[[Attachments/PDFs/already read/Yeoh - 2020 - Serial migration , multiple belongings and orientations toward the future The perspective of middle-class migrants in Sin-annotated.pdf]]


‘middling migrants’, a term which refers to those who occupy the space between transnational elites and low-waged labour migrants.

We argue that focusing on how migrants occupy the transnational social field between origin and destination alone does not fully encapsulate the experiences of serial migrants.

. Cultivated through a search for belonging – being in one place, longing for another (Hedetoft and Hjort, 2002)

n orientation implies an inclination towards a general directi

Transnationalism pays attention to the simultaneous experience of incorporation into countries of destination and the maintenance of sustained connections with actors, networks and institutions in countries of origin (Vertovec, 2003).

Faist, for example, points out that even as we critique ethnicity or nationality as a category, we continue to organise the empirical and conceptual parameters of our research projects around migrants’ countries of origin.

Foregrounding nationality also leads to another taken-for-granted assumption of transnationalism: that migrants’ social worlds generally (or primarily) encompass only two countries, origin and destination.

foregrounding nationality assumes social worlds generally encompass only two countries: origin and destination

Ossman suggests a different way of considering migration. Like Faist, she argues that centring ethnicity or culture obscures the actual salience of these factors in the experience of migration. Instead, she proposes that examining a ‘shared pattern of settlement’ (Ossman, 2013: 2) –

what i'm looking for! centering ethnicity or culture obsures actual salience of factors in the experience of migration