# Annotation Summary of Migrants New Transnational Habitus Rethinking Migration Through a Cosmopolitan Lens in the Digital Age.pdf.
 *Highlight [1]:* ‘inclusive cosmopolitan’

 *Highlight [3]:* The heuristic value of the transnational paradigm resides precisely in its ability to encapsulate the disconnection between state, national, cultural and geographical borders. Furthermore, by deconstructing the territorial equation between state, nation and society, transnational scholarship puts forward serious arguments for changing the lens through which social scientists perceive and analyse the world (Wimmer and Glick Schiller 2002). As a constructivist approach, transnationalism is the starting point of an autoanalytical reflection which aims to understand [b]oth the social scientists observing the social world as well as the effects that this has on this world and how, at the same time, the forces of the social world shape the outlook of the social scientists (Wimmer and Glick Schiller 2002: 302).
 *and Note [3]:* transnationalism as deterritorialized. 

 *Highlight [3]:* ICTs enabled new forms of migrant transnationalism characterised not only by the growing intensity of transnational exchanges and activities, but also by a ubiquitous system of communication that allows migrants to connect with multiple, geographically distant and culturally distinct worlds to which they identify and participate on a daily basis (Nedelcu 2010; Vertovec 2009).
 *and Note [3]:* ICTs enable migrants to navigate and connect with multiple, geographically distant and culturally distinct worlds in which they identify and participate on a daily basis.  

 *Highlight [3]:* Many migrants move easily within transnational social spaces and frame new social configurations by creating new social and political geographies. Online migrants thus embody many complexities resulting from the cosmopolitanisation processes of interconnected social worlds: multiple, overlapping spaces of belonging; multipolar systems of references, loyalties and identifications; increasingly complex citizenship regimes; interconnected lifestyles; and the ability to act at a distance in real time ([beck](005.Authors/beck.md) 2006; Georgiou 2010; Nedelcu 2009a, 2010).
 *and Note [3]:* online migrants ảe complex due to cosmopolitan processes of connected social worlds. 

 *Highlight [4]:* By disclosing the limitations of ‘social science precepts’ that are essentially ‘territorial’ and ‘sedentary’ (Hannam et al. 2006), these debates have set up a new research agenda which aims to deconstruct the equation society0nation0state and to show that static territorial (i.e. national) boundaries are becoming obsolete frameworks for reflection when it comes to social structures, in a context of increasing mobility, pluralisation of allegiances, and transnational and cosmopolitan affiliations (Beck 2006, 2008; Benhabib 2004; Georgiou 2010; Urry 2000).
 *and Note [4]:* deconstruct equation that society=nation=state to show that static territorial boundaries are obsolete. in light of increasing mobility, pluralization of allegiances, and transnational and cosmopolitan connections. 

 *Highlight [4]:* I therefore propose to revisit the nationalÁtransnational nexus by following Ulrich Beck (2006) in his attempt to elaborate a general social theory based on a ‘cosmopolitan vision’ and the ‘both here and there’ condition of the modern mobile actor. Beck suggests that social science scholars should integrate transnational awareness in their conceptual and methodological toolkit. This new ‘cosmopolitan grammar’ would provide us with a different approach to the seemingly contradictory co-existence of local and particularistic movements with global and universalistic trends. ‘Methodological cosmopolitanism’ would then replace the national perspective’s ‘eitherÁor’ disjunctive stance with a ‘bothÁand’ approach (Beck 2002, 2006).
 *and Note [4]:* [[008.Theories and Concepts/theory.methodological cosmopolitanism]] according to [[005.Authors/beck]]’s research. would replace the “either-or” disjunctive stance with a “both-and” approach.

 *Highlight [4]:* Beck emphasises the importance of three main features of the cosmopolitan condition:
 *and Note [4]:* [[3 main features of cosmopolitan condition]]: 
1. dialogical imagination—social actors’ capacity for perceiving “other’s otherness” [[hannerz]]. 
[[multilocation]] which involves crossing the borders of separate worlds (nations, religions, cultures, skin colors, continents, etc). 
2. additive inclusion—the “cosmopolitan grammar” where migrants can be both inside/outside, here/there, local/national. ridding of elitist structures and knowing that there’s a distinction. not colorblind.
3. local-cosmopolitan continuum— analytic tool that positions actors within social space according to their degree of attachment and identification to a locality and a local culture, state or region; and the resulting degree of economic, cultural and institutional protectionism (Roudometof 2005)

 *Highlight [5]:* Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies 1343 • The ‘dialogical imagination’, i.e. social actors’ capacity for perceiving ‘other’s otherness’ (Hannerz 1996)*that is, the contradictions and complementarities that exist between different cultures*and for incorporating them in a creative manner (Beck 2006). The development of this capacity is connected with a process of banal cosmopolitanisation resulting in a ‘passage from place-monogamous to place-polygamous ways of living’ (Beck 2000: 74Á5). One should take into account not only the ability of social actors to act at a distance, but also the increasing globalisation of biographies and life trajectories which relate ‘not just to any kind of multiple location, but only to that multilocation which involves crossing the borders of separate worlds (nations, religions, cultures, skin colors, continents etc.) and whose oppositions must or may lodge in a single life’ (Beck 2000: 75). • The ‘additive inclusion’ principle, which reflects a subtle process of interpenetration of cultures and conveys the ‘politically ambivalent, reflexive’ (Beck 2006) and ‘vernacular’ (Werbner 2006) characteristics of the (post)modern condition, thus allowing the association of contradictory concepts, as well as the co-existence of very local and particularistic claims with transcending elitist universalist practices, deployed translocally as well as transnationally. Thus, [the] cosmopolitan model is about being equal and being different at the same time. This is the ‘cosmopolitan grammar’. It’s not about saying, there is no longer any distinction between us and them (Rantanen 2005: 258). • This logic transcends national/international, outside/inside dichotomies with a cumulative framework whereby one can be simultaneously in and out within a multipolar system of references; i.e. social actors can be simultaneously included and excluded, occupy different social positions in the societies of different countries, and be engaged in both local and global movements (Beck 2002, 2006). • The ‘local-cosmopolitan continuum’, which corresponds to an analytical tool that positions actors within social space according to their degree of attachment and identification to a locality and a local culture, state or region; and the resulting degree of economic, cultural and institutional protectionism (Roudometof 2005).

 *Highlight [6]:* The cosmopolitan perspective hence opens promising paths for the study of international migration in the digital age. It seems to be an appealing alternative to both ‘ethnocentric nationalism’ and ‘particularistic multiculturalism’ (Vertovec 2001), and allows for a new reading of the transnational actions and allegiances of migrant and non-migrant populations who enlarge their horizon of aspirations beyond home and host countries (Burrell and Anderson 2008). It helps to better understand how glocalisation (Robertson 1994) impacts on people’s social and geographic mobility and for a better grasp of the multiform and multi-scale interdependencies between globalisation and migration processes, beyond insider/ outsider, mobile/sedentary, national/transnational dichotomies.
 *and Note [6]:* cosmopolitan perspective as allowing study of international migration in digital age. alternative to “ethnocentric nationalism and “particularistic multiculturalism” [[005.Authors/vervotec]].

better informs multiform and multi-scale interdependences between globalization and migration processes. #beyond insider/outsider, mobile/sedentary, national/transnational dichotomies.  

 *Highlight [6]:* Besides making the deep transformations of migrants’ social life produced by ICT, mobilities and globalisation more comprehensible, the ‘cosmopolitan vision’ gives these transformations meaning in relation with a new emerging ‘geometry of power’ (Massey 1993).
 *and Note [6]:* “cosmopolitan vision” gives transformations meaning in relation with a new emerging [[geometry of power]] [[massey]]

 *Highlight [7]:* affected the world of both migrants and non-migrants. Such an assumption is at the core of scholarship aimed at reformulating the concept of society based on the emergence of multi-located transnational social fields. Levitt and Glick Schiller (2003) refer to these fields as social forms that span borders and connect intertwined territorial scales and social spaces with overlapping power hierarchies.
 *and Note [7]:* [[008.Theories and Concepts/theory.transnational social fields]] has affected lives of both migrants and non-migrants where these fields are social forms that span borders and connected intertwined places and spaces with overlapping power hierarchies.

 *Highlight [7]:* ICTs play an important role within these processes as they tend to diversify ways of being together and ways of belonging at a distance; i.e. on the one hand, social transnational ties and practices and, on the other, the memories, nostalgia and shared imaginary which push migrants to connect with other people because of their ethnic background or common interests, a shared openness to the world or commitment to specific cultures. The concept of a transnational social field is therefore of particular heuristic value due to its capacity to investigate a historically new form of social differentiation in the digital age. It provides a multifocal analytical framework for identities, social positions and the power relations that exist between various social actors with different degrees of openness to other cultures and different cultural and territorial commitment to specific places, traditions and institutions. This concept also imparts meaning to migrants’ conservative or transformative behaviours in relation to the transformation of social roles and status (Levitt and Glick Schiller 2003; Vertovec 2009).
 *and Note [7]:* [[008.Theories and Concepts/theory.transnational social fields]] as an imperative #analytical #framework [[analytical framework]] for [[ICTs]]. 

provides multifocal analytical framework for identities, social positions and the power relations that exist between various social actors with different degrees of openness to other cultures and different cultural and territorial commitment to specific places, traditions and institutions. 

 *Highlight [7]:* As I further argue, transnational families are the exemplary social matrix generating new patterns of socialisation, due to the fact that intergenerational exchanges, the transmission of values and the inculcation of social habitus increasingly tend to take place within deterritorialised contexts (Levitt and Glick Schiller 2003; Nedelcu 2009b; Vuorela 2002; see also Bacigalupe and Ca´mara, this issue). The Internet, and in particular its visio functionalities such as Skype, MSN etc., widely contribute to this process, providing social actors with effective tools with which to intervene and adapt to the ongoing cosmopolitanisation of everyday life (Beck 2008).
 *and Note [7]:* the transnational family as exemplary of this social habitus taking place in detrritorialised contexts.

internet as widely contributing to the process of deterritorialization providing social actors with “effective tools” to intervene and adapt to cosmopolitanisation of everyday life. 

 *Highlight [7]:* Hence social habitus is increasingly shaped by the transnational dimension of social life. As a system of ‘durable and transposable’ dispositions (Bourdieu 1979) that generate practices and representations, social habitus conveys the way in which an individual’s social background and early social experiences imprint on his or her ‘way of being’ in the world through an*often unconscious*process of internalisation of exteriority. Pierre Bourdieu (1979) has pointed out, however, that habitus ‘is not destiny’, but rather the product of socialisation; thus it tends to reproduce past behaviour within a familiar context but gives way to innovation when faced with novel situations.
 *and Note [7]:* [[bourdieu]]’s definition of [[social habitus]] as a system of “durable and transposable” dispositions that generate practices and representations, social habitus conveys the way in which individuals’ social background and early social experiences imprint on her “way of being” in the world through—often unconscious—processes of internalization of exteriority. 

#habitus is “not destiny” but a product of socialization; thus reproduces past behavior within a familiar context but gives way to innovation when faced with novel situations.

 *Highlight [7]:* transnational habitus is a useful concept for the analysis of transnational experiences in the digital age, as well as for the interpretation of mechanisms through which migrants
 *and Note [7]:* [[transnational habitus]] as useful analytical tool for allowing us to manage multiplicity and develop transnational and cosmopolitan skills—whether emotional, analytical, creative, communication or functional. 

 *Highlight [8]:* 1346 M. Nedelcu manage multiplicity and develop transnational and cosmopolitan skills*whether emotional, analytical, creative, communication or functional (Vertovec 2009).

 *Highlight [9]:* This study of the transnational ICT-mediated practices of Romanian migrants started from the ‘netnographic’ observation (Nedelcu 2009a) of the migratory strategies that IT and computing professionals have developed online since the mid-1990s. 2
 *and Note [9]:* [[netnographic]] [[netnography]] as coined by [[005.Authors/nedelcu]]

 *Highlight [9]:* An approach focused on ICT use as a migratory tool and resource showed that computing professionals played a key role in developing new migratory and diasporic dynamics, acting as a community catalyst. Furthermore, a first six-month period of online ethnography revealed that online practices are highly intertwined with offline life and effectively impact on migrants’ lifestyles.
 *and Note [9]:* [[online ethnography]] revealed that online practices are highly intertwined with offline life and effectively impact on migrants’ lifestyles.

 *Highlight [10]:* As Kathrin Kissau (this issue) also argues, ‘The Internet has become an asset for collecting information about the immigration country’. Websites, migration discussion fora and the intensive exchange of emails with colleagues already living in Canada contributed to the transnational socialisation of future migrants.
 *and Note [10]:* #great #quote oh internet as asset for collecting information on immigration country 

 *Highlight [10]:* Hence, the future migrant becomes acquainted with his or her future host society long before actually moving there. The migrant’s representation of the world and of others begins to adjust through a growing awareness of cultural differences and specificities; the Internet plays a crucial role in the process of reshaping values beyond borders and local cultural frameworks.
 *and Note [10]:* migrant knows about the country and community before even stepping foot into the country. in alignment with [[002.Literature Notes/Diminescu, Loveluck, Paristech - 2014 - The connected migrant]]’s research

 *Highlight [10]:* Online migrants are actively participating in the (re)configuration of their own identity, negotiating its boundaries and learning to live with a multiple sense of self. Regular use of ICTs helps them to adapt to new social codes, constantly redefine their ‘mosaic’ identity (Melucci 1989) and enlarge their ‘social horizon’ (Burrell and
 *and Note [10]:* [[ICTs]] as allowing migrants to define their identities and sense of self. online discussions provide secure environment.

 *Highlight [11]:* Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies 1349 Anderson 2008). Moreover, discussion fora provide a secure environment for gradual social learning.

 *Highlight [14]:* It can be surmised that second-generation migrants are developing a deep-seated transnational habitus*
 *and Note [14]:* 2nd gen as developing “deep-seating [[transnational habitus]]”

 *Highlight [15]:* However, in spite of the large democratisation of access to digital communication devices and the Internet, many migrants still face difficulties in engaging in everyday communication patterns with their ‘home’ countries due to political issues, legal status or lack of computer literacy.
 *and Note [15]:* even with internet, migrants still face difficulties in engaging with “home” countries due to political issues such as [[001.Notes/citizenship]] and [[visa]] issues as seen through #myresearch 

 *Highlight [15]:* Although many questions remain to be answered empirically, this research shows that adopting a cosmopolitan analytical frame to study migration processes in the digital age is heuristically productive. This approach allows us to go beyond transnational theories; it places much emphasis on the dialogic dimension of the migrants’ transnational ways of being and belonging, and on the various orientations within a local-cosmopolitan continuum in which local and global trends are strongly intertwined and overstep home- and host-countries’ horizons.
 *and Note [15]:* benefits of adopting a “cosmopolitan analytical frame to study migration patterns in the digital age”. 

 *Highlight [15]:* According to Wimmer and Glick Schiller: ‘Methodological nationalism is the naturalization of the global regime of nation-states by the social sciences. Scholars who share this intellectual orientation assume that national borders are the natural unit of study, equate society with the nation-state, and conﬂate national interests with the purposes of social science. Methodological nationalism reﬂects and reinforces the identiﬁcation that many scholars maintain with their own nation-states’ (2003: 576).
 *and Note [15]:* [[methodological nationalism]] #definition

