# Annotation Summary of schiller2005.Transnational social fields and imperialism.pdf.
 *Highlight [page 2]:* Drawing from my ethnographic research with fundamentalist Christians and studies of Haitian long-distance nationalism, I argue that in order to develop a theory of globe-spanning power and society, Transnational Studies must examine the relationship between the transnational social ﬁelds and the contemporary restructuring of imperial power.
 *and Note [page 2]:* to develop theory of transnational studies, it needs to include relationship between transnational social fields and contemporary restructuring of imperial power.

 *Highlight [page 2]:* Transnational Studies allow us to theorize about the changing role and nature of the state by keeping state processes and structures within our frame of analysis and yet not conﬁning our ﬁeld of study within the borders of any one state.
 *and Note [page 2]:* allowing to theorize about changing role and nature of the state by keeping processes and structures within the frame but not confining within borders of the state.

 *Highlight [page 3]:* However, in their efforts to think beyond the methodological nationalism of the container approach to society, some theorists of global processes downplay the concept of the social as they reconﬁgure the concept of society. Beck’s formulation of ‘reﬂexive cosmopolitization’ and much of the related literature on cosmopolitanism, for example, largely abandons an exploration of social relations and social context. In Beck’s (2000) cosmopolitanism, as in Luhmann’s world society, communication technologies become key. Global media ﬂows and consumerism lead to a new form of consciousness. Social relations and social positioning fall out of the analysis; the individual and the global intersect. Without a concept of the social, the relations of power and privilege exercised by social actors based within structures and organizations cannot be studied or analyzed.
 *and Note [page 3]:* [[005.Authors/beck]]’s theory of cosmopolitanism fail to discuss social positioning in its analysis—where the individual and the global intersect. 

without studying [[relations of power and privilege]] exercised by social actors based within structures and organizations cannot be studied or analyzed. #good #great #theory

 *Highlight [page 4]:* Instead I have suggested a view of society and social membership based on a concept of social ﬁeld (Glick Schiller, 1999, 2003, 2004; Glick Schiller and Fouron, 1999; Levitt and Glick Schiller, 2004). The notion of social ﬁeld exists in social science literature in several different forms. I draw on those proposed by Bourdieu and by the Manchester school of anthropology. Bourdieu used the concept of social ﬁeld to call attention to the ways in which social relationships are structured by power. The boundaries of a ﬁeld are ﬂuid and the ﬁeld itself is created by the participants who are joined in a struggle for social position. Society for Bourdieu is the intersection of various ﬁelds within a structure of politics (Jenkins, 1992: 86). While his approach does not preclude the notion of transnational social ﬁelds, he does not directly discuss the implications of social ﬁelds that are not coterminous with state boundaries. In contrast I begin with the social network that I deﬁne as an egocentric set of ongoing social relationships. A social ﬁeld is a network of networks. The concept of transnational social ﬁelds, which are networks of networks that stretch across the borders of nation-states, should serve not only as an indictment of the container theory of society but as a step in the further development of a concept of society. Yet much of Transnational Studies has obscured and rendered invisible the structures of politics that stretch beyond state borders.
 *and Note [page 4]:* [[008.Theories and Concepts/theory.transnational social fields]] #theory proposed by [[bourdieu]] and [[manchester school of anthropology]]. 

[[bourdieu]] used concept of [[social field]] to call attention to ways social relationships are structured by #power . boundaries of fields are fluid and field is created by participants joined in struggle for social position.


 *Highlight [page 4]:* It is possible to celebrate transnational ﬂows of culture and people, or to censure or advocate for transnational capital and still think within the boundaries of cultural identities that are ultimately linked to territorially based nation-states and their maintenance or construction. Transnational Studies can resurrect methodological nationalism of a new type and become a form of transnational methodological nationalism.
 *and Note [page 4]:* possible to celebrate cultural flows and people but still think within boundaries of cultural identities that are linked to territorial based nation-states. resurrecting [[methodological nationalism[[ or a new type [[transnational methodological nationalism]].

 *Highlight [page 4]:* For example, many researchers who study migration and other transnational processes speak of ‘transnational communities’. Among the many problems with such an approach is that it privileges an ethno-cultural unit of analysis. Researchers often deﬁne as their unit of study a population not bounded by time or space but contained within the boundaries of an ethnic/national identiﬁcation. Serious distortions of the social relationships of migrants, both locally and transnationally, follow. Those persons who choose identities and social relations not conﬁned to the ethnic population fall out of the research and the development of theory. Yet there are many possible ways that migrants organize their relationships and identities in both a new land and transnationally that take them beyond the conﬁnes of ethnic organization and identity. Even long-distance nationalists who identify with a nation-state building project in an ancestral homeland 442
 *and Note [page 4]:* problem with “transnational community” which privileges an ethnocultural unit of analysis. #greatquote #quote #great

 *Highlight [page 5]:* GLICK SCHILLER Transnational social ﬁelds and imperialism usually live within a social ﬁeld that includes multiple social networks that are not ethnically based.

 *Highlight [page 5]:* While in its classic form imperial states conquer and rule over colonies, the Marxist theorists were less interested in describing empires than in understanding the relationship between capitalism and systems of control that made domination possible even without military occupation and direct colonization. They saw in ﬁnance capital an instrument of intervention in formally sovereign states that facilitated control without constant colonial systems of supervision. Currently ﬁnance capital can take the form of loans, investment, and foreign ‘aid’. In non-colonial forms of imperial domination, the military force of a powerful state combines with the global reaches of ﬁnance capital to penetrate into multiple polities and constrain their actions and policies. Since the Second World War, this form of imperialism has dominated. Contemporary imperialism combines the power of capital wielded through the World Bank, and various development banks and funds, and the military force of a state or an alliance of states. 2When John F. Kennedy stated that ‘foreign aid is a method by which the United States maintains a position of inﬂuence and control around the world’, he openly acknowledged a relationship of power that has been widely understood by political leaders worldwide but was rarely openly acknowledged between the Second World War and 2001 (cited in Lens, 1971: 367).
 *and Note [page 5]:* marxist theorists less interesting in describing empires than in understanding relationship between capitalism and systems of control that made domination possible without military occupation or direct colonization. mostly economic.

 *Highlight [page 6]:* At that conference, Frederick Cooper noted that there are various ‘modes of intervention by a powerful polity in the affairs of weaker ones’ and delineated three: ‘imperial (intervening in another polity without actually governing it), hegemonic (setting the rules of the game which others must follow), and colonial (governing internal affairs of a subordinated polity)’ (Cooper, 2003: 2).
 *and Note [page 6]:* “modes of intervention by a powerful polity in the affairs of weaker ones”

 *Highlight [page 6]:* Rather than differentiate modes of intervention, it may be more fruitful to see various forms of control by which some states are dominated by others as all forms of a single mode of domination called imperialism. Analysis can be centered on a different set of concerns by asking the following question: through what globally spanning systems of social relationships are ideologies that legitimate contemporary imperialism becoming part of the day to day life experiences and common sense of people around the world?
 *and Note [page 6]:* not necessary to look at society through “modes of intervention” but instead to see “various forms of control by which some states are dominated by others as all forms of a single mode of domination called imperialism”. 

#great what systems of social relationships that legitimate contemporary imperialism becoming day to day life experiences and common sense of people around the world?

