Date and Time: 18-19 November 2021, 9:30am – 3:00pm
# Two Hybrid Workshops
## Academic Networking on Researching Migration, Identities: Intra-Generational Conflicts and Negotiating of Intra-ethnic Partnerships or Sexualities in the Vietnamese Diaspora
with [[julien]]

- ### meeting with julien about [[conference]] proposal on diasporas
- [[diaspora]] workshop proposal with [[julien]]. dilution of 2nd and subsequent gens of diaspora within viet community.
- return migration affecting diasporic concept
- how do you study VK (born abroad) who return? and what part of the diaspora are they part of?
- what does it mean to be part of a diaspora and "return" as a 2nd generation
- [[ict]] playing a role in digital diaspora 
- how icts play a role in bonding coethnics from not only 2nd gen but with viets born in vietnam and leave

# Call for papers conference
- 
- defining terms transnationalism, diaspora
- introduce our research

### Call for papers writeup
[[call for papers]]The terms "transnationalism" and "diaspora" cover a range of experiences. Transnationalism refers to the multiple connections that migrants have to two countries or more. The definition of diaspora is contested among scholars that cannot agree on its criteria. Thus there are shortfalls and blindspots with these terms when discussing migration. How can these terms better help us understand the phenomenon of "return" migration, specifically the experiences of the 2nd and subsequent generations? Or those who may not identify with the "diaspora" but still nourish some ties to the ethnic homeland? How can we problematize these terms to help us better understand the increasing use of Information Communication Technologies (ICT) and digital attitudes of these groups? In this workshop, our aim is to promote a lively discussion around and question these well-used terms in the digital age we live in. 


Outline of Workshop
- framing workshop around we are not the "experts" and instead are looking for support 
- defining terms **transnationalism**, diaspora
- introduce our research
	- how do we deal with these concepts in our own respective research?
	- 
- how does the concept of "diaspora" connect with the 2nd/subsequent generations
- Dan's: how is diaspora affected with ICTs with various online groups (youtube, FB, IG)
- asking questions to the audience? how do all of you deal with these qusetions in your own researcH?
- [[diasporicity]] [[tsuda]]





            
# Call for Papers Invitation
**_Two Hybrid Workshops’ Invitation:_**

**Academic Networking on Researching Migration, Identities** **Intra-Generational Conflicts** **and** **Negotiating of Intra-ethnic Partnerships** **or Sexualities**

**in the Vietnamese Diaspora**

**Venue:** The workshop will be organized in hybrid form, while the physical part will took place

 at the Department of Asian Studies, Faculty of Art, Palacký University třída Svobody

 686/26, 779 00 Olomouc, Czech Republic

**Time:** 18-19 November 2021, 9:30am – 3:00pm

**Call for Papers and Presentation Proposals**

Since the 1970s, roughly four million people of Vietnamese descent are living in parts of diaspora all around the world. Originally, a significant part of the diaspora consists of political refugees. But, in the recent years, the majority of those migrants are economic migrants – either migrant workers or petty businessmen. As a result, the diaspora is divided, but even its younger strata is composed of relatively open communities, concentrated mainly around big trade and industrial centers, where Vietnamese communal live and ethnic economy merged together. Naturally, there are significant differences across different regions and locations of the diaspora. For example, unlike in the Czech Republic, Germany and Japan, the Vietnamese diaspora in Taiwan or in the U.S. is not (or no more) isolated. Also, due to the existence of the third and fourth generations in the diaspora, the situation is even more specific in France (and other so-called western countries), where the young people of Vietnamese descent may identify as French, but not fully.

As we can see from existing scholarship, the co-existence of the diaspora in all the host countries is a complicated matter. Due to the racial prejudices and xenophobia on the both sides, the Vietnamese diaspora´s members are (to certain degree) isolated from the society-at-large. Nevertheless, racial prejudices are not the sole perpetrator of the ostracization of migrants. Class, socio-economic statuses and, to some degree, cultural segregation are also prominent factors in shaping migrants’ experiences. Moreover, aspects such as sexuality and gender play important roles in conditioning the social lives, migration decision makings and practices, as well as identities of Vietnamese migrants in various parts of the world.

In order to prepare ourselves for the future research projects on Vietnamese diaspora, the two workshops aim to combine various approaches on researching the diaspora at economically and culturally different localities in Europe, U.S. and East Asia and put together various scholars at various stages of their academic careers focused on Vietnamese migration and diaspora. The ultimate aim is to set up an information exchange platform and a cooperative network that will allow joint research activities and joint publication activities in the future.

**Deadline**

Please send your presentation proposals (180-300 words long) together with your CV to filip.kraus@upol.cz by **5th November, 2021.**

**Inquiries**For further inquiries, please send an email to: [filip.kraus@upol.cz](mailto:filip.kraus@upol.cz)