---
title: "0080.Theoretical Framework Overview"
---


[theory.Transnationalism](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.Transnationalism.md)

- Werbner writes, “Migration is a class-related phenomenon, and notions of transnationalism or cosmopolitanism as cultural phenomena are of necessity class related (see Novikowski 1984; Werbner 1990).” ﻿In _Working-class cosmopolitans and diaspora_ (2018)
- Studies on second-generation return migration reflect the transnational networks that the second generation are embedded into and the personal and social relationships that connect place of birth, ancestral homeland and diaspora (Levitt 2001; Foner 2002; Glick Schiller 2004; Christou 2006, Wessendorf 2007; King and Christou 2008). 
- King (1979) reflects that an important typology of return migration is the ‘return’ to the familial ancestral homeland.
- Homeland is often characterised by the deep-rooted identification and emotional attachment to the place of origin. It reflects the migrants’ own interpretation of their roots, the celebration of cultural heritage, attachment to a sentimentalised place and the importance of ‘knowing where you come from’ for the construction of self-identity (Basu 2007).

[concept.diaspora](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/concept.diaspora.md)
- Parennas and Siu (2009: 7) have argued that diasporic consciousness and identifica- tion ‘emerge and grow stronger from local processes of racialisation’. ﻿Parennas, R. and L. Siu (eds) (2009) Asian diasporas: new formations, new conceptions, Stanford: Stanford University Press.
- Takeyuki Tsuda – Diasporicity Relative embeddedness in transnational and co-ethnic networks.
	- First generation Viets as a “victim diaspora” while second generation are more or less economic diaspora but share a collective memory of the first generation’s traumatic dispersal. This can be evident through the stories they shared.
	- Tsuda speaks of Japanese diaspora having weaker diasporicity since they are an older diaspora. Contrast with the Vietnamese diaspora which is a relatively newer one (beginning around 1975 with the liberation of VN).
	- Lateral transnational ties with Coethnics
	- Because the western countries 2nd generations lived in are positioned high in terms of geopolitical power, lateral connections between Coethnics are more prevalent.
	- Although viets are part of the “model minority” myth, SE Asians face economic, political, and social hurdles unlike Japanese older diasporas.
- Stuart Hall (2008: 346) speaks of ‘cosmopolitanism from below’. ﻿There is a ‘cosmopolitanism of the above’ – global entrepreneurs following the pathways of global corporate power and the circuits of global investment and capital, who can’t tell which airport they’re in, because they all look the same, and who have apartments in three continents. This is global cosmopolitanism of a very limited kind but it is very different from ‘cosmopolitanism from below’ – people driven across borders, obliged to uproot themselves from home, place and family, living in transit camps or climbing on to the backs of lorries or leaky boats or the bottom of trains and airplanes, to get to somewhere else. Both of them are forms of globalization and, in so far as they both interact within the same global sphere, are deeply interconnected with one another. But they don’t constitute the basis of a ‘global citizenship’.

- Jonathan Friedman (1995: 79–80) addresses issues of transnational subjectivity as manifestations of new class formations. The “global elites”.
- Within any single national, regional or territorial community, however, these global networks disrupt, as Homi K. Bhabha (1994) has argued, any neat notions of national boundedness, without denying them. In Location of Culture.
- Migration is a class-related phenomenon, and notions of transnationalism or cosmopolitanism as cultural phenomena are of necessity class related (see Novikowski 1984; Werbner 1990). Working-class cosmopolitanism – a knowledge of and openness to other cultures – while

Social [theory.capital](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.capital.md) (Putnam)

power dynamics from [1994.Basch, Glick Schiller-Nations Unbound](002.LiteratureNotes/1994.Basch,%20Glick%20Schiller-Nations%20Unbound.md)

Cyber social anchoring

o Especially with covid, connections formed online
o With the Delta outbreak occurring in 2021, Viet Nam has suffered tremendously. And returnees are doing a double return, many reluctantly.