---
title: "010.Preliminary Qualitative Data Analysis"
---
# Preliminary Analysis
- see [000.Codebook_vk ethnic return migration](010.Qualitative%20Data/000.Codebook_vk%20ethnic%20return%20migration.md)
- see [[010.Qualitative Data/020.coding notes]]
- see [030.Network Images](010.Qualitative%20Data/030.Network%20Images.md)
- see [1chp14 doing digital migration studies](002.Literature%20Notes/1chp14%20doing%20digital%20migration%20studies.md)



## Where is this from (source)?

Interviewees come from many different countries, and their experiences and life stories differ in many ways. The one thing that they have in common is that all of them have Vietnamese roots, but they were born or raised in Western countries[[1]](#_ftn1). In their 20s or 30s, they decide to experience living in Vietnam. 

This study tries to answer what factors shape the return of Vietnamese heritage westerners back to Vietnam and explores their experiences in regards to the integration into Vietnamese society. Although it is early to form the final conclusions, the preliminary analysis suggests many possible factors shape the return of Vietnamese westerners. Maybe, it is possible to classify them into three types of factors: individual (personal), social (interactional), and external (environmental). 

Individual factors can be “a quest for identity”, social can be “a Viet Kieu/expat community in Vietnam” and external can be “globalization/modernization/technology (ICT)”. However, there are yet fifteen more interviews to code, as well as to process the already developed codes and merge them into categories and themes. 

The respondents faced many identity issues while growing up (among other things, because they looked different than the majority or because of conflict between fitting into Western cultural heritage and being raised with Vietnamese cultural values). They sometimes experienced racism, discrimination, and bullying. They had to put extra effort to fit in and become accepted as a regular part of a community. What is interesting is that when respondents came to Vietnam, they again experienced similar issues as in their countries of birth. They were seen as Westerners or foreigners, they looked different, they could not fit in with Vietnamese traditional cultural values, and overall, they could not connect with the mindset of local Vietnamese. In my opinion, this is the most interesting aspect of this research, and deconstructing it can benefit with some very interesting findings. It is interesting to focus on how Vietnamese heritage westerners who moved to Vietnam react to this, and how it helps them to reconsider, rebuild, or accept their identity. 

The other interesting aspect of the study is that it shows that Vietnamese westerners who moved to Vietnam usually stay in social circles that include other Viet Kieu's (or other foreign ex-pats). This can also be connected with identity, as although Vietnamese westerners come from many different countries, they still have a lot in common. First of all, the same Vietnamese heritage, identity issues that are characteristic for the second generation of Vietnamese westerners (feeling half, feeling split, being in the middle, balancing identities) and other struggles (racism/discrimination, language issues, family issues, etc.) they had while growing up are similar for all of them. The identity of the second-generation Vietnamese seems to be very different from the identity of first-generation Vietnamese who immigrated to Western countries, the major population of their birth country, as well as of Vietnamese who never left Vietnam. This places Viet Kieu identity as a distinct category of (inter)national identities. This can be brought in the connection with newly emerging identities that are being formed in our (post)modern society that is characterized by the global movement of capital, people, and symbols. It would be good to explore this Viet Kieu identity even further and to understand how it differs from traditional (national) identities. 

It is also important to put some focus on the effects of globalization, modernization, and technological advancements (which is also connected with the Viet Kieu / ex-pat community in Vietnam). For example, it can be argued that the second generation of Vietnamese westerners comes to Vietnam because of its modernization and job opportunities. The respondents are usually highly educated and came to Vietnam to work for international companies. This allowed them to explore their roots, reconnect with family they have in Vietnam, travel, while they could also get international work experience and improve their careers. They realize that Vietnam is changing and they come there to be a part of Vietnam’s growth. For example, they promote businesses, try to improve the education system, and help certain groups such as underprivileged girls. They are also “rebranding” Vietnam through posting audio-visual content on social networks and internet, showing to the world that Vietnam changed and in that way, attracting other Vietnamese who were born in western countries to come to Vietnam, as well as tourists and expats. 

ICTs also play a big role in making the life of Vietnamese returnees easier. First of all, they allow them to stay in touch (through instant chats, video calls, and other means of internet communication) with their parents and friends who stayed in their birth countries. Additionally, ICTs help them to connect with people of similar interests and build new social networks in Vietnam. For example, there are many Viet Kieu groups where returnees can find different types of information that can make their first weeks/months in Vietnam easier. Also, they use online groups and networks to connect with people of similar interests, to find events they can attend, and to build new social networks. It might be argued that ICTs allow returnees to live in Vietnam without fully integrating. Through the internet and ICTs, they can easily stay in the Viet Kieu/Expat social bubble, shop or order food online, and generally stay disconnected from the local Vietnamese society while still being a part of it. 

In conclusion, this study can provide some interesting observations on how identities are formed in the contemporary world. It shows how identity can be deconstructed, reconsidered, reinvented, and accepted. It shows how traditional notions of identity that are based on ethnicity or nationality transform into other types of identities that are more global, international, or hybrid. On a micro-scale, this is a story about the second-generation of Vietnamese westerners, about their personal and social struggles, as well as about approaches for overcoming them. Finally, it is also a story about Vietnam going through a change. Vietnamese westerners, although not fully integrated into Vietnamese society, and often in disjunction with traditional Vietnamese cultural values, represent the new drive of Vietnam’s modernization and their return to Vietnam will probably have important effects on the further economic and cultural transformation of Vietnam.