---
title: "2022.EuroSEAS_(dan abstract)"
---

see: 
> - [000.personal.bio](_Spaces/personal/000.personal.bio.md)
> - [2022.EuroSEAS_(panel submission)](_Spaces/work/Conferences/2022.EuroSEAS_(panel%20submission).md)
> - [034.Chapter4_Transnational virtual networks](000.Chapters/034.Chapter4_Transnational%20virtual%20networks.md)

# **Finding home and community in virtual third places: The returns of Western-born Vietnamese**  

## Abstract
- Since the 1986 Doi Moi reform, an increasing number of labour migrants and students leave Viet Nam every year for better opportunities abroad. During the same period, a positive correlation can be seen with members of the diaspora returning to the country. According to government estimates, over 500,000 Vietnamese return to Vietnam each year to work, live, and retire. Among these returnees are a group who have made Viet Nam their home: the Western-born, second generation. This presentation explores the significance of online community memberships in the construction of identity and belonging among Western-born Vietnamese who “return” to their ancestral homeland. Drawing on 31 online in-depth interviews with second generation Vietnamese living in Viet Nam, from 12 disparate Western countries, it examines when, how, and why they use information communication technologies to create identity and spaces of belonging. Employing a framework of social and migrant capital theories, I reveal the obstacles and advantages these return migrants encounter with belonging as they coexist with other western-born coethnics and locals in their ancestral homeland. A focus on the outcomes of various belongings between coethnics and locals is examined to demonstrate how returnees' various capitals are impacted. My preliminary findings suggest that when confronted with exclusion and feelings of non-belonging, returnees seek out the familiar whether online or offline: other Western-born expats.


## Comments from Tamsin [Barber](005.Authors/Barber.md) and Lan Anh [Hoang](005.Authors/Hoang.md)
- One thing you may wish to focus on (if not in the abstract but in the presentation) would be the **#outcomes of different kinds of belongings**.  
- If some participants <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">experience more belonging with other western co-ethnics in VN rather than Vietnamese locals, how does that impact their social and cultural capital in their new lives in Vietnam and vice versa?  </mark> 
- Likewise, <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">do particular experiences of exclusion or non-belonging lead returnees to identify or seek belonging with particular groups?  </mark> 
  
If you do want to add anything into the abstract please do and return it to us before March 15th.  
  
We really look forward to discussing this with you in June/July.

## Theories, concepts, and ideas to employ
### Theories
- Ray [[005.Authors/Oldenburg]] and [Third Places](_Spaces/work/Conferences/2022.EuroSEAS_(dan%20presentation).md#Third%20Places)
- [erel](005.Authors/erel.md)'s concept of [theory.migrant capital](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.migrant%20capital.md)
- [small](005.Authors/small.md)
	- [2019.small-How Vietnamese in the US and beyond fuel dreams with remittances](002.LiteratureNotes/2019.small-How%20Vietnamese%20in%20the%20US%20and%20beyond%20fuel%20dreams%20with%20remittances.md)
### Ideas
- covid as accentuating/accelerating social media as a third space
- metaverse

### Third Places
According to [this article](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1461444806061953), a virtual third place fails to encompass these three criteria: 
1. third places emphasize localized community;
	1. While this may be true of some spaces, my research suggests something different. My respondents and the members of the social media groups **are** in a localized community. While some do live in far-flung countries (do to having returned to the place they were born, or never have taken the leap to move to HCMC), most of the membership resides in HCMC. 
	2. In terms of connecting localized organizations/businessnes, the members of these groups promote local businesses, some being their own. they also plan and organize meetups at these businesses.
2. third places are social levelers; and
3. third places are accessible
	1. To 2nd generation, Western born, Viet Kieu, these third places are accessible. Born and raised in the digital age, this segment is no stranger to the internet and its tools.  

## Outline
- Intro
- 

## Main Writing
### Intro
- Compared to a large part of the world, the 2008 global financial crisis did not have a destabilizing effect on Viet Nam's economy. 
- On the contrary, since 2008, Viet Nam's main business hub, Ho Chi Minh City, has seen a technological revival. Sky scrapers adorning names of large multinational corporations.
- due in part to the 2008 crisis, a 