# Dissertation Structure from [[authoring a phd by patrick dunleary]]

* Methodology Chapter?
	* Instead write "research methods appendix" 

## Writing Format 
- **Total writing**: < 40k-80k words (~160 pages double-spaced @ 40k, 320 double-spaced  @ 80k words)
- 6 Chapters @ 5-10k words per chapter, (~20-30 pages double-spaced @ 5-8k, single-spaced @ 8-15k) 


###  Structure
* **LEAD IN**: 1-50/60 pages, 1-2 Chapters.
* **CORE**: 50-60 pages, 5 chapters @ 50k words maximum)
* **LEAD OUT** (p. 62): 1-2 chapters
	* Should bring together and integrate conclusions from core chapters
	* should cover different compenets of research
	* should "open out" to of results to wider literature, theory and lit discussion saved until end

### Chapter Organization
**10k words/chapter**

**Overview**
> Intro (200-1000 words)
> Section 1: 2k-2500 words
> Section 2: 2k-2500 words
> Section 3: 2k-2500 words
> Section 4: 2k-2500 words
> Conclusion (200-1k words)


- Each chapter has 4 sections
	- Chapter sections (around 2500 words)
			- short headings 4-8 words
			- start with no more than 2 paragraph lead-in
				- ends with signpost about rough sequence of topics to be discussed in **this section** only
				- end section by stepping back and drawing out brief central message of section.**** do not write a mechanical ending like, "this section was about..."****
				- stay on-track, don't discuss things other than in the section
				- have a lead-in/forward linkages to next section
- paragraphs are about 100-200 words (can be entirely seen on computer screen double-spaced)
	- Sentences should be no longer than 40 words--ideally 20 words. *

- **finishing a chapter**
	- Conclusions section (2 paragraphs long)
	- first paragraph should gather key points pulled out from each last paragraph of each section so as to draw together points
	- should be markedly different than last paragraph of last section
	- second paragraph should "open out" to one or two broader issues recited

* **Use analytic expressions to chunk ideas**:
	* Social, psychological, economic, political, cultural, etc
	* But keep narrative and connect to bigger picture

====
**3 parts (chapters), 2 sections each**
*Chapter 1: (un)settling home*
* section1: departure: a push from the ancestral homeland 
* section2: arrival: born and raised in the global north 
*Chapter 2: (re)negotiating identity: Motivations for counter-diasporic return*
* section1: belonging and acceptance in the natal homeland
* section2: locating the self: experiences upon and after return to the ancestral homeland (counter-diasporic migration)
*Chapter 3: Transnational virtual networks: Mediating assimilation/acculturation via ICTs*
* section1: Building community online
* section2: Cyber social anchoring (family and friends)

====
do the second generation feel like they failed their parents? parents' reactions to return movement. focus on _tension_. tension of where home is, western country, viet nam?

before VN, did you feel MORE/less viet. after?