# Annotated Bibliography

## Annotated bibliography: bib and 2-3 sentences outlining how it connects to research. Organize them by subtopics. Then alphabetically by topic

### Return Migration
**2nd gen return** 
- Max Müler, returns of german contract workers. Gendered experiences. Similar to my own research!
- Oxfield and Long. ﻿Long, Lynellyn D., and Ellen Oxfeld. 2004a. Introduction. In Coming Home? Refugees, Migrants, and Those Who Stayed Behind, ed. Lynellyn D. Long and Ellen Oxfeld, 1–15. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania.
- Long, Lynellyn D. 2004. “Viet Kieu on a Fast Track Back.” In Coming Home? Refugees,
- Tsuda, diasporic homecomings
- Markowitz. Ethnic Return Migrations — ( Are Not Quite ) — Diasporic Homecomings. ﻿co-ethnics from countries high on the global hierarchy experience more rewarding homecoming experiences than those from countries delineated as Third World.

### ICT
- Werbner. In “_debating cultural hybridity_”: Although the 1990s bore witness to the rise of global 24-hour televison news, and the spread of the Internet, it is the rise of social media – Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Internet forums, blogs, Spotify, Google, Skype, and so on – that has enabled global interaction among prior strangers and the emergence of global networks and forums in which to create, share and exchange images, videos, performances, information and ideas, appealing to virtual communi- ties who can also mobilise for action.

· 

### Theoretical
**Transnationalism**
- Glick Schiller, Basch. Nations Unbound. Look at social fields beyond descriptors but how migrants are active agents in process of hegemonic construction.

**Cosmopolitanism**
- Stuart Hall (2008: 346) speaks of ‘cosmopolitanism from below’. ﻿There is a ‘cosmopolitanism of the above’ – global entrepreneurs following the pathways of global corporate power and the circuits of global investment and capital. 2nd gen are “economic” migrants that have privileges and are different from 1st gen who are “cosmopolitans from below”.

**Diaspora**
- Takeyuki Tsuda – _Diasporicity Relative embeddedness in transnational and co-ethnic networks_. First gen as “victim diaspora”, 2nd as “economic diaspora”. Lateral ties with Coethnics b/c western countries 2nd gen are from are positioned high in context of geopolitical power, lateral connections between Coethnics are more preveland.
- Robin Cohen. Victim diasporas.
- Homi K. Bhabha. Location of Culture. Within any single national, regional or territorial community, however, these global networks disrupt, as Homi K. Bhabha (1994) has argued, any neat notions of national boundedness, without denying them.
- (see Novikowski 1984; Werbner 1990). Migration is a class-related phenomenon, and notions of transnationalism or cosmopolitanism as cultural phenomena are of necessity class related

**Migrant Capital**
