---
title: "010.diss.2 Narative Arcs + Research Qs"
---
following the [[000.Chapters/000.Writing Guide.diss]]
check out [[000.Chapters/030.Chapters at-a-glance]]

> 2 NARRATIVE ARCS: ICTs construct a present/different/future narrative of Vietnameseness.

**Main Research Q**

How do ICTs mediate experiences of belonging and identity construction of second generation Viet Kieu after return migrating to Viet Nam? 

**Theoretical framework**: transnational social fields, methodological cosmopolitanism

# 2 narrative arcs:

1. 1st arc (Chaps 1-3): For 2nd gen, there was a lack or absence of ICTs in the imaginary of VN while growing up and connecting to VN. Families couldn’t communicate with VN real-time, relied on 1st generation or diasporic media (eg. Paris by Night) to connect with motherland.

2. 2nd arc (Chaps 4-6): Now in VN, using own tools (ICTs) to navigate ancestral homeland on their own. And then pandemic hits and 2nd gen are forced to confront contradiction of how much citizenship matters in age of covid (2nd gen are not citizens of VN, most on 5-year visas that have to be renewed every few months by leaving the country or extended but due to pandemic they can’t leave and are having trouble extending).

**1st Arc**
* Chapter 1 **Introduction** (200-1k words) 
* Chapter 2: **The Vietnamese westerner:** **(un)settling home (How second-gen VK ended up in western countries)**
	* Couldn’t communcate w/vn. Absence of ICTs. Valverde’s Transnationalizing VN. Caruther’s, Ashley’s research on Australia.
* Chapter 3: Upbringing: **The Natal Home: Belonging, identity, and acceptance** 
	* FB use in the natal home grows but then decreases/dies. Returnees become embedded in FB when returning to VN. [[L1]](#_msocom_1) 
		* Setting the Stage of migration/mobility. 2nd generation’s memory of upbringing. Using works of scholars and naming ICTs parents had that connected them with VN build the narrative that 2nd generation heard the stories from their parents but didn’t have the resources to back up evidence on their own. There was a lack of ICTs present in the imaginary of VN. As they become of age, they gain social media (fb in 2008) and could take the information in their own hands. Then they make the move to VN equipped with their own tools to navigate and understand the country on their own.

**2nd Arc**
* Chapter 4: The Return: **The Ancestral Homeland**
* Chapter 5**:** **Transnational virtual networks: Mediating assimilation/acculturation via ICTs**
	* Within the pandemic, do I stay or leave?
* Chapter 6: **National Identities, the Nation-state and Local perception**
	* citizenship. work of [[erel]] and [[ryan]]
	* Confronted w/contradiction w/ how much citizenship matters in age of covid. Rights and privileges constrained. Papers are more meaningful now than when first decided to return

