---
title: "010.Chapters at-a-glance"
---
#  Chapters At-a-glance
#original 

Return of the Vietnamese westerners: Second Generation return migration to Viet Nam in the digital age

## Introduction: The westerners return 
🧠[Detailed] [Chapter1_intro](000.Chapters/Chapter1_intro.md)

---

## Chapter 2 (un)settling home (How second-gen VK ended up in western countries) 
🧠[Detailed] [Chapter2_westerners](000.Chapters/Chapter2_westerners.md)
- Introduction (200-1k words) 
- Begin with a qualitative quote? 
- situating within a transnational context 

### Section I: departure: a push from the ancestral homeland (Outward migration of 1st generation from Viet Nam)
1. Pre-1975 (1 wave)
2. Post-1975 (3 waves)
	* Refugee (boat people)
		* orderly departure program (ODP)
		* Humanitarian Operation (HO)
	* Skilled migrants
	* Work migrants (japan today)
	* Hinting at factors that shape return to VN

### Section II: arrival: born and raised in the West
1. background of western countries
2. statistics of success or failure of viets

**Terms to Define**
1. Transnationalism
2. Viet Kieu
3. Second Generation
4. Westerner
5. ICTs
6. Viet Nam (why 2 words)

### Section III: Belonging and acceptance in the natal home
1. Experiences before moving. Accepted? Othered/marginalized? discrimination? 
2. How did experiences in natal home motivate migration to VN?

### Section IV: Discussion and Conclusions (200-1k words)

---

## Chapter 3: (re)negotiating identity: Motivations for ethnic return migration
🧠[Detailed] [Chapter3](000.Chapters/Chapter3.md)
Introduction (200-1k words) 
Begin with a quote 

### Section I: The returns of the Vietnamese Westerner

### Section II: Ancestral home
1. Incentives for return
2. Counter-diasporic migration
3. Before Doi Moi 8k VK
4. After Doi Moi 500k VK return

### Section III: locating the self: experiences upon and after return to the ancestral homeland (counter-diasporic migration)
1. experience before moving 
2. after moving
3. acceptance? otherized?
4. discrimination? favoritism?
4. pull factors? 

### Section IV: Discussion and Conclusions

---

## Chapter 4: Transnational virtual networks: Mediating assimilation/acculturation via ICTs*
🧠[Detailed] [Chapter4_ICTs](000.Chapters/Chapter4_ICTs.md)
### Section I: Building virtual networks
### Section II: "re"-integrating to the ancestral homeland
### Section III: Cyber social anchoring 
### Section IV: Discussion and Conclusions

---

## Chapter 5: Adapting to the ancestral homeland
🧠[Detailed] [Chapter5](000.Chapters/Chapter5.md)
### Section I: resistance?
### Section II: problems?
### Section III: expat enclaves?
### Section IV: Discussion and Conclusions
 
---

## Chapter 6: National Identities, the Nation-state and Local perception
🧠[Detailed] [Chapter6](000.Chapters/Chapter6.md)
### Section I: citizenship
### Section II: property ownership
### Section III: visas
### Section IV: Discussion and Conclusions

---

## Chapter 7: Conclusion
🧠[Detailed] [Chapter7](000.Chapters/Chapter7.md)


