---
title: "Chapter1_intro"
tags: 
- #organizeme #🌱 
enableToc: false # do not show a table of contents on this page
---
# Chapter1: (Preface? and) Introduction 


# **Chapter 1** Introduction (write at the end of dissertation)

Check out:
> - [Research Qs + 2 Narative Arcs](000.Chapters/010.Two%20Narative%20Arcs%20+%20Research%20Qs.md) and
> - [Chapter at-a-glance](000.Chapters/030.Chapters%20at-a-glance.md)

## Introduction (200-1k words)

1. 0.0 2010s was an unprecedented time for migration. Vietnamese migrants leaving Viet nam in the form of [labor migration](001.Notes/labor%20migrants.md). Occurring through Regular and irregular channels. Vietnamese diasporic migration into Vietnam.

a. 2019 essex lorry incident resulting in 39 deaths brought to the limelight the treacherous nature of international labor migration (Stuart [[005.Authors/hall]]’s [[Cosmopolitanism from below]]).

b. The Technical Intern Trainee Program (TITP). Vietnamese are now the fastest growing group of foreigners in Japan, [numbering 410,000](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-japan-temple-idUSKBN2480P2) in 2019 and they account for [almost half of the trainees](http://www.asahi.com/ajw/articles/13142265) in the TITP program.

c. Reference tien nguyen’s (2017) work, Vietnam and Its Diaspora on labor migrants (p 242)

d. Forced return migration by trump administration (reference lipman’s last chapter of “in camps”). Also ﻿Michel Wieviorka points out (in “debating cultural hybridity” eds. Werbner, in a communication responding to this new edition, to a widespread ‘refusal of multiculturalism’ by European politicians, reflecting ‘the rising ideologi- cal importance of the right and the extreme right, at least as far as racism, ﻿nationalism, xenophobia and fear of alterity are at stake’ (xvi)

e. ﻿In “_debating cultural hybridity_”: Although the 1990s bore witness to the rise of global 24-hour televison news, and the spread of the Internet, it is the rise of social media – Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Internet forums, blogs, Spotify, Google, Skype, and so on – that has enabled global interaction among prior strangers and the emergence of global networks and forums in which to create, share and exchange images, videos, performances, information and ideas, appealing to virtual communi- ties who can also mobilise for action.

2. And it was also during this same period in which an influx of western-born/raised Vietnamese from the diaspora began migrating in.

a. Unboundedness- ﻿Appadurai, for example, has argued that there is a need to reconceptualize the “landscapes of group identity,” a need that flows from the current world conjuncture in which “groups are no longer tightly territorialized, spatially bounded, historically unselfconscious, or culturally homogeneous” (1991:191). In nations unbounded

2020-2021 was a year of multi-worldwide pandemics: covid, black lives matter, global [anti-asian violence](https://time.com/5947862/anti-asian-attacks-rising-worldwide/). Quotes from folks who wanted to stay in VN and not return to their respective birth homes due to the violence. Article written by Sen Nguyen.

1.1: Defining terms (2k-2500 words)

a. Transnationalism

a. ﻿We define “transnationalism” as the processes by which immigrants forge and sustain multi-stranded social relations that link together their societies of origin and settlement. We call these processes transnationalism to emphasize that many immigrants today build social fields that cross geographic, cultural, and political borders. Immigrants who develop and maintain multiple relationships—familial, economic, social, organizational, religious, and political—that span borders we call “**transmigrants**.” An essential element of transnationalism is the multiplicity of involvements that transmigrants’ sustain in both home and host societies. We are still groping for a language to describe these social locations. Transmigrants use the term “home” for their society of origin, even when they clearly have also made a home in their country of settlement. The migration literature describes the country of settlement as the “host,” but such a term, though compact and convenient, carries the often unwarranted connotations that the immigrant is both “welcome” and a “visitor.” Transmigrants take actions, make decisions, and develop subjectivities and identities embedded in networks of relationships that connect them simultaneously to two or more nation-states (p. 8) In glick-schiller and basch’s nation’s unbounded.

b. Viet Nam (monosyllabic; why 2 words)

c. Viet Kieu is a disputed term that will be used in this book. Viet Kieu literally means Sojourner of Vietnamese ancestry or overseas Vietnamese. It comes from the Chinese root, ___, and refers to those who have left Vietnam for another country. Some, including several informants in this manuscript, find the label to represent a power imbalance, especially when the word is used as a self-identifier. The term usually evokes images of a person who has left Viet Nam, typically to a country positioned higher geopolitically than Vietnam, owning at least one car, and living in the lap of luxury (citation required). Thus, the label is charged with privilege and economic inequality. Some of the informants in this research preferred labelling themselves Người ______ Gốc Việt (fill in the blank with the birth country. ie. Norwegian with Vietnamese roots) when asked where they were from by locals. With this in mind, Viet Kieu will be used herein for two reasons.

d. First, while Viet Kieu is recognized as being unequal, it is a term that represents and bonds Coethnics within the diaspora. Some of the groups explored in this research use the term to label their own group (ie. Viet Kieus in Viet Nam, Viet Kieus for in Saigon etc.). Viet Kieu easily identifies those of Vietnamese ancestry who have lived abroad for any certain amount of time. It is a term 

a. “Kieu bao” used by the State now to woo returnees and their Đông to Vietnam.

b. Caroline’s words on VK in Transnationalizing Viet Nam book.

c. Alvin’s emails on VSG listserv.

d. Max [muller](005.Authors/muller.md)s research 2021: “Viet Kieu is a Sino-Vietnamese term. ‘Viet" refers to ethnic Vietnamese, whilst Kieu is a translit- eration of the Chinese word ‘qiao’, which means ‘to sojourn’ or ‘to reside temporarily away from home’. [Viet Kieu](001.Notes/Viet%20Kieu.md) is a popular term of reference for overseas Vietnamese used by the state and people in Vietnam for overseas Vietnamese” (Koh 2015a: 203)
e. Diaspora

f. Tien Nguyen (2017): _Vietnam and Its Diaspora: An Evolving Relationship,_ Diaspora Policies (pg. 247)

g. Myth of return [safran](005.Authors/safran.md).

h. Westerner

i. Second Generation

j. Identity

k. Belonging

k. Return migration

m. Ethnic return migration (Book: Strangers in Ethnic Homeland,Takeyuki Tsuda, Arizona State University)

n. Counter diasporic migration (king)

o. Westerner
p. ICT

1.2: Lit Review

Ethnic Return migration (Tsuda, Takeyuki)

Counter Diasporic Return (King and Christou)

Methodological nationalism (resources: Glick-Schiller, Basch)

Roots migration (wessendorf)

**1.3: Theoretical Framework**

Transnational social fields (nina glick schiller and levitt)

Methodological nationalism

Social capital

Online social anchoring

1.4 Methodology
- [positionality](001.Notes/positionality.md) #wording When we indicated that social scientists are consumers of and contributors to hegemonic concepts, we obviously are taking a stand. As social scientists, we see ourselves dialectically as both observers and the observed. At the same time, those about whom we write are both the subjects of our inquiry and subjects who, in relationship to what is being said and done around them, including the work of social scientists, and in relation to their own varying motivations, act upon and change the world of our inquiry. We, in turn, observe these actions and are influenced by them. What is more, we evaluate the actions, the beliefs, and the stance of our ﻿subjects. We are, as are all social scientists, whether or not it is acknowledged, positioned observers. Our perceptions, whether we objectify them by identifying them as “data” or as “texts,” are influenced by our position in the world and our positions about the state of the world. (p. 17) Nations unbound. Glick Schiller


* Literature Review
* Theoretical Framework
* * Methodology Chapter?
	* Instead write "research methods appendix" 
	* data collection
		* beginning jan 2021
		* sampling and recruitment
			* qualtrics survey
			* FB posts on group pages
				* snowball sampling
		* key informants
			* the sample
	* interviews
		* in-depth
			* procedures
				* online. zoom. recorded, transcribed. 
			* reflections upon interviewing
		* online ethnography
			* participant observations
	* Analysis of in-depth data (see #wording pg 109 of #barber's dissertation')
	* Researcher [[Positionality]]. see #tsuda's work in Strangers in the Ethnic Homeland for #wording 
	* Research issues, limitations
		* reliability
		* validity
		* replicability
		* quality of data
		* recruitment
			* desire was to obtain a sample from diverse western countries. since historically the US contains the largest diaspora of viets post-1975, naturally the number of informants from the US were high. 
		* ethics
		* anonymity
			* with folks being on FB and the groups being accessible to the public, it is possible for people to find out who they are. 
	* Presentation of data
		* how i use qualitative data in each chapter. see #barber's dissertation (pg 123) for details.
		* 

[031.Chapter1_intro](000.Chapters/031.Chapter1_intro.md)
[032.Chapter2_westerners](000.Chapters/032.Chapter2_westerners.md)
[033.Chapter3_natal identity and belonging](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_natal%20identity%20and%20belonging.md)
[033.Chapter3_the return](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_the%20return.md)
[034.Chapter4_Transnational virtual networks](000.Chapters/034.Chapter4_Transnational%20virtual%20networks.md)
[Chapter5](000.Chapters/Chapter5.md)
[035.Chapter5_The state](000.Chapters/035.Chapter5_The%20state.md)
[036.Chapter6_outro](000.Chapters/036.Chapter6_outro.md)