---
title: "Chapter2_westerners"
---

# **Chapter2: The Vietnamese Westerners**: Life in the natal home
#☀️

Check out:
> - [Research Qs + 2 Narative Arks](000.Chapters/010.Two%20Narative%20Arcs%20+%20Research%20Qs.md) and
> - [Chapters at-a-glance](000.Chapters/030.Chapters%20at-a-glance.md)
> - [Theories to Employ](Theories%20to%20Employ.md)

## Section I: The Vietnamese westerner: **(un)settling home (How second-gen [Viet Kieu](001.Notes/Viet%20Kieu.md) ended up in western countries)

0. Preface/intro: the lack or absence of [ICTs](009.Themes/Identity%20and%20Belonging/theme.ICTs%20and%20Belonging.md) in the imaginary of VN while growing up and connecting to VN for the 2nd generation. 2nd gens relied on the 1st gen or diasporic media to connect with motherland.

1. Departure: a push/pull from the ancestral homeland 
	* The history of the Vietnamese diaspora.
		* Much research to-date has focused heavily on the US, Canada, Australia, and UK. A quick review of these aforementioned countries and also look at other receiving/settlement countries (Czech republic, Germany, Norway, Finland, Switzerland, France, etc).
2. [Outward migration](001.Notes/Outward%20migration.md) patterns
	* Pre-1975 
		* mainly to neighboring countries		
		* **Skilled migrants and intellectuals** (push/pull factors)
		* **Work/economic migrants/Contract Laborers**
			* Research different migration streams 
				* eg. to Soviet-allied countries 
					* Phi Hong [Su](005.Authors/Su.md). Cold War Coethnics in Berlin 
	* Post-1975-1999 
		* **USA** (3 waves to US. see [Valverde's Movement and Meaning](005.Authors/valverde.md) also [rutledge](005.Authors/rutledge.md)) 
			1. 1st Wave (to United States)
				- **Refugee (boat people)** (push factor) but who is designated refugee status? Who is a refugee and who determines status? migrant/refuge binary (phi hong [Su](005.Authors/Su.md) book intro + jana [Lipman](005.Authors/Lipman.md)’s (p 1) intro) that some are categorized as refugee/migrant and it affects our imaginary. Also Rebecca [Hamlin](005.Authors/Hamlin.md)'s Crossing. 
			2. 2nd Wave
			3. 3rd Wave: Orderly Departure Program (ODP) and Humanitarian Operation (HO)
		* **Research other countries**
			* As mentioned in the first point, research is heavily America-centric. A short review of literature that goes into waves to other countries (with emphasis on migration to Western nations) 
	* Post 1999 (also see [labor migrants](001.Notes/labor%20migrants.md))
			1. Reflect on the following types of migrants to come out of Viet Nam
		* **Refugees?**
		* **Skilled migrants** (pull factor)
		* **Students/Work/economic migrants
			* [An Tuan Nguyen](005.Authors/An%20Tuan%20Nguyen.md)'s dissertation about entrepreneurs and intellectuals
		* **Contract Laborers**
			* Japan’s technical interns 
			* Taiwan and other Asian countries
			* Eastern European countries
				* [2019 Essex Lorry Deaths](001.Notes/2019%20Essex%20Lorry%20Deaths.md)

## Section II: Arrival of the 2nd generation. Born and raised in the West: experiences in the Western birth country
1. An overview/background (mini literature review) on experiences in Western countries. 
	* 1st and 1.5 generation's experiences in Western Countries
		* cite racial tensions 
			* [Discimination and Racism](001.Notes/Discimination%20and%20Racism.md)
			* [KKK and Viet Fishermen](001.Notes/KKK%20and%20Viet%20Fishermen.md)
		* [Zhou's research](https://doi.org/10.1080/1369183X.2020.1724411) 
		* 1.5 gen with [2013 - Thanh Hai Le Cao - Identity of 1.5 gen viets](002.Literature%20Notes/2013%20-%20Thanh%20Hai%20Le%20Cao%20-%20Identity%20of%201.5%20gen%20viets.md) dissertation
		* Communicating with the first generation: Parents not being able to communicate to VN due to absence/lack of ICTs ([valverde](005.Authors/valverde.md)’s work). This also affecting 2nd generation.
2. 2nd gen experiences in natal (western) home 
	- [Zhou](005.Authors/Zhou.md)'s work
	- Research about identity, acceptance, discrimination
	- Authenticity (Tamsin [Barber](005.Authors/Barber.md)’s work)
	- Hinting at factors that shape return migration to VN
	- reflect on [postmemory](001.Notes/postmemory.md) #hirsh—recall of stories of 1st gen to 2nd growing up in the western homeland. Connection here to [valverde](005.Authors/valverde.md)'s work on anti-communism in the 1st generation. 

## Section III: Belonging and acceptance in the natal home
- cite research in [theme.belonging](009.Themes/Identity%20and%20Belonging/theme.belonging.md), particularly [yuval-davis](005.Authors/yuval-davis.md)'s work on [yuval-davis - 2006 - Belonging and the politics of belonging](002.Literature%20Notes/yuval-davis%20-%202006%20-%20Belonging%20and%20the%20politics%20of%20belonging.md)
1. Growing up in the West.
	* Cite research on Vietnamese 2nd generation in western countries. A conversation about Diaspora. Cite [brubaker](005.Authors/brubaker.md) and [tsuda](005.Authors/tsuda.md)
		* USA ([Zhou](005.Authors/Zhou.md), [rutledge](005.Authors/rutledge.md), Andrew nova Le, etc)
		* Australia ([Carruthers](005.Authors/Carruthers.md), etc)	
		* UK (Tamsin [Barber](005.Authors/Barber.md))
		* Germany (Phi Hong [Su](005.Authors/Su.md)
		* [Switzerland](https://comparativemigrationstudies.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40878-019-0117-7) 
		* Other western countries if available
2. fitting in
	* [Zhou](005.Authors/Zhou.md), M. (1997) ‘Segmented assimilation: issues, controversies, and recent research on the new second-generation’, Internal Migration Review, 31(4): 179–191.
	* other research on belonging

## Section IV: Hinting at Return (the push or pull)
* Return motivations of the 2nd generation. Myth of return [safran](005.Authors/safran.md) for some.
	* Introduce existing research on 1st and 1.5 generations. 
	* 2nd generation
		* [nguyen-akbar mytoan](005.Authors/nguyen-akbar%20mytoan.md)'s research
		* Return visits (S. [Wessendorf](005.Authors/Wessendorf.md) research; Tasmin [Barber](005.Authors/Barber.md)
		* Insert #qualitativedata here. 2nd gen's interpretations of parents' reactions to return movement. Focus on #tension. Tension of where home is, western country, viet nam? [tension](001.Notes/tension.md)
	

[031.Chapter1_intro](000.Chapters/031.Chapter1_intro.md)
[032.Chapter2_westerners](000.Chapters/032.Chapter2_westerners.md)
[033.Chapter3_natal identity and belonging](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_natal%20identity%20and%20belonging.md)
[033.Chapter3_the return](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_the%20return.md)
[034.Chapter4_Transnational virtual networks](000.Chapters/034.Chapter4_Transnational%20virtual%20networks.md)
[Chapter5](000.Chapters/Chapter5.md)
[035.Chapter5_The state](000.Chapters/035.Chapter5_The%20state.md)
[036.Chapter6_outro](000.Chapters/036.Chapter6_outro.md)