---
title: "Chapter4: From foreigner to Westerner:  (Re)negotiating identity in the ethnic homeland"
tags: 
- #🌱
enableToc: false # do not show a table of contents on this page
---

# **Chapter3** The Return from foreigner to Westerner:  (Re)negotiating identity in the ethnic homeland

The intention of this chapter is to highlight the case study in the current research. The direction is still a work-in-progress and can benefit from a more concentrated approach. The different sections connect directly to the research questions (see link below).

Check out:
> - [Research Qs + 2 Narative Arcs](000.Chapters/010.Two%20Narative%20Arcs%20+%20Research%20Qs.md) and
> - [Chapter at-a-glance](000.Chapters/030.Chapters%20at-a-glance.md)


## Section I: Inroduction
1. From my #qualitative research: They are outsiders in their birth home and become westerners in their ancestral homeland.
	- When a return is not a return. Jana K [Lipman](005.Authors/Lipman.md)’s epilogue (p 234) account of Pham Chi Cuong, 1.5 generation viet who was forced repatriated by Trump administration in 2018.
	- Natalie Nguyen’s research expressing the uncontrollable distress and physiological reactions associated with corruption in their return journeys of 1st generation. 2nd generation didn’t have that kind of stress and trauma. And Ngoc hasn't gone back but may return for the sake of her children so they can "discover their roots" (p. 27) In [2008.nguyen-We return in order to take leave](002.LiteratureNotes/2008.nguyen-We%20return%20in%20order%20to%20take%20leave.md) #gendered experiences upon return

2. [postmemory](001.Notes/postmemory.md)
	- [hirsch](005.Authors/hirsch.md) and Spitzer, writing about the children of Jewish Holocaust survivors, refer to as a "postmemory, a secondary, belated memory mediated by stories, images and behaviors among which [they] grew up, but which never added up to a complete or linear tale" (2003:85). 2nd generation "inherited [their] par- ents' knowledge of the fragility of place, their suspicion of the notion of home" (Hirsch and Spitzer 2003:93 in ﻿Hirsch, Marianne, and Leo Spitzer. 2003. 'We would never have come without you': Generations of nostalgia. In Contested -pasts: The politics of memory, Katharine Hodgkin and Susannah Radstone, eds. London: Routledge
	 - Like the narratives of post-Holocaust genera- tions, hers "speaks about what is not known by one generation and what has not been said by another" (Wajnryb 2001:27)

3. Vietnam Today (Use long bui’s chap 5 empire’s residuals. Returns of War capitalism is happening seeing as “explicit market”). Also about outside global investments in VN from which countries that lay the brickwork so to speak, of hegemonic global capitalism which makes it easy for 2nd gen to return.

## Section II: The "Return"
1. return impressions (first weeks/months)
2. Types of "returnees"
	- [2015.reed-danahay-Foreigner My Own](002.LiteratureNotes/2015.reed-danahay-Foreigner%20My%20Own.md)and Stuart [hall](005.Authors/hall.md) piece on “[cosmopolitainism from below](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/cosmopolitainism%20from%20below.md)”. This group is from above.
		- dialectic relationship of western-born VKs returning to Vietnam and the global influx of Vietnamese contract workers leaving vietnam to work unskilled, menial labor factory work in other countries, namely Japan. Cite work of scholars doing work in field of “technical internships” in Japan and elsewhere of Vietnamese workers
		- the process of transnationalism is several decades long process of global capitalism. 
		- The development of transnationalism within the past several decades is part of a long-term process of global capitalist penetration.
		- The development of an international division of labor and the integration of the world by transnational corporations that develop worldwide systems of production, distribution, and marketing affect both the flow of immigrants and the manner in which they come to understand who they are and what they are doing. (p. 13) in Nations Unbound. Glick Schiller and Basch.
	- skilled returnees ([2017.nguyen-akbar-Formation Spatial Symbolic](002.LiteratureNotes/2017.nguyen-akbar-Formation%20Spatial%20Symbolic.md)
			- types of work these VK do in VN. English teacher, consultants, cooks, corporate
	- [ong](005.Authors/ong.md)'s theory of [theory.flexible citizenship](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.flexible%20citizenship.md)

2. spaces and places connected with 
#Theories to use ([[oldenberg]]: third spaces; bowling alone, Robert [[Putnam]], social [theory.capital](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.capital.md))

## Section III: establishing community
1. friends in VN
	- expats vs locals
	- Coethnics (vk) connections)
2. Acceptance (Tensions, Resistance and problems)
	- Within
		- hybridity. 
			- In “debating cultural hybridity” eds (pnina werbner) (p xiv) Bakhtin is that all cultures, like languages, are continuously evolving, unconsciously and organically; they are neither bounded nor fixed. At the same time, however, intentional, transgressive, newly created, deliberate and often shocking cultural mixings challenge normative separations or dominant hegemonies and are the grounds for reflexivity and for the public bridging of cultural differences.
		- “Care for the other”. Folks working in NGOs to educate folks on “precarious journeys” labor migrants take. 
			- Cultural mix- ings are thus conceived of in the book as conjoined with social responsibility and care for the other, respect for difference and a challenge to established inequalities and hierarchies (in “debating cultural hybridity” above)
	- without
		- language
			- Language as barrier
			- Language as breaking barriers
		- Locals ask: “O day luon?” Will you stay here forever? Talking about transient not yet used to permanence. Another element of the "return" is the question of duration or permanence (ở [đây] luôn?]. This would be a good question to ask VK who live in VN now or have plans to return/go. Permanence is on the extreme end, but it seems to be the default question from Vietnamese who learn your are "VK".

3. Power dynamics, hegemony: foreigners (vks) being treated better than locals.
	- Nina glick schiller’s article in _Chapter 6 Diaspora and Transnationalism A global perspective on transnational migration: Theorising migration without methodological nationalism_ quoting this: 
		- “Clearly, those who have rights as citizens in states or confederations of states that dominate the world militarily and economically – namely the United States and the European Union – have been able to move to the rest of the world with few barriers.” (p.
		- Providing us with a clear statement of the ongoing connectedness of migrant ties to “different places,” the call for network analysis focuses our attention on migrants as actors. These formulations, however, do not look at the implications of these networks for the formation of migrant political and social identity, or the complexities of nationalist identifications within transnational social fields. The “spider-web” networks of transmigrants must be located within the hegemonic processes of multiple nation-states, and we must move beyond descriptions of networks to a view of migrants as active agents in a process of hegemonic construction (p. 30, Nations unbound: transnational projects, postcolonial predicaments, and deterritorialized nation-states).
		- hegemony is the relationship between those who dominate within the state and those who are dominated. relations are ultimately maintained by force, the social order is sustained by daily practice, habit, and common sense. (p. 14) Nations Unbound.
		- We use the term “hegemonic construct” to describe both consciously articulated statements and embedded perceptions that are used and reappropriated by transmigrants, and which serve ultimately to empower and legitimate dominant forces in both the migrants’ societies of origin and of settlement. (p. 15) In Nations Unbound.
		- Transmigrants simultaneously are affected by, incorporate, and participate in hegemonic contentions “back home” as they learn new meanings and forms of representation in their new settings. (p. 17) ibid.

4. [remittances](001.Notes/remittances.md) 
	- economic 
	- social [concept.social remittances](concept.social%20remittances) 
		- Ivan [small](005.Authors/small.md)'s book': <u>Currencies of imagination</u> book
		- [nguyen-akbar mytoan](005.Authors/nguyen-akbar%20mytoan.md) article: [2014.nguyen-akbarTensionsDiasporicReturn2014](002.LiteratureNotes/2014.nguyen-akbarTensionsDiasporicReturn2014.md): how class and money create distance in the Vietnamese transnational family)
		- [Lan Hoang - Transnational Labour Migration, Remittances and the Changing Family in Asia by Lan Anh Hoang, Brenda S. A. Yeoh (eds.) (z-lib.org)](002.LiteratureNotes/Lan%20Hoang%20-%20Transnational%20Labour%20Migration,%20Remittances%20and%20the%20Changing%20Family%20in%20Asia%20by%20Lan%20Anh%20Hoang,%20Brenda%20S.%20A.%20Yeoh%20(eds.)%20(z-lib.org).md)

## Section IV: Post return identities
1. Identity post return
	1. [Carruthers](005.Authors/Carruthers.md)
	2.  [koh](005.Authors/koh.md)
2. Gender
	1. good Viet gender dynamics and relations histical section [2021.mullerTransnationalLifeTrajectories](002.LiteratureNotes/2021.mullerTransnationalLifeTrajectories.md)
	2. [2008.nguyen-We return in order to take leave](002.LiteratureNotes/2008.nguyen-We%20return%20in%20order%20to%20take%20leave.md)
	3. [2011 - Lan Hoang - Gender Identity and Agency in Migration Decision Making Evidence from Vietnam](002.LiteratureNotes/2011%20-%20Lan%20Hoang%20-%20Gender%20Identity%20and%20Agency%20in%20Migration%20Decision%20Making%20Evidence%20from%20Vietnam.md)

[031.Chapter1_intro](000.Chapters/031.Chapter1_intro.md)
[032.Chapter2_westerners](000.Chapters/032.Chapter2_westerners.md)
[033.Chapter3_natal identity and belonging](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_natal%20identity%20and%20belonging.md)
[033.Chapter3_the return](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_the%20return.md)
[034.Chapter4_Transnational virtual networks](000.Chapters/034.Chapter4_Transnational%20virtual%20networks.md)
[Chapter5](000.Chapters/Chapter5.md)
[035.Chapter5_The state](000.Chapters/035.Chapter5_The%20state.md)
[036.Chapter6_outro](000.Chapters/036.Chapter6_outro.md)