---
title: "Chapter4_ICTs"
enableToc: false # do not show a table of contents on this page
---

# **Chapter4** Digital Ethnic Enclaves: Mediating assimilation/acculturation via ICTs
#🌱 

Check out:
> - [2022.EuroSEAS_(dan abstract)](_Spaces/work/Conferences/2022.EuroSEAS_(dan%20abstract).md)
> - [040.Article Writing](000.Chapters/040.Article%20Writing.md)
> - [theme.ICTs and Belonging](009.Themes/Identity%20and%20Belonging/theme.ICTs%20and%20Belonging.md)
> - [Research Qs + 2 Narative Arcs](000.Chapters/010.Two%20Narative%20Arcs%20+%20Research%20Qs.md) 
> - [Chapter at-a-glance](000.Chapters/030.Chapters%20at-a-glance.md)


## Questions to answer: 
- [ ] How do ICTs create a feeling of connectedness to Viet Nam?
- [ ] Do ICTs create connectedness between coethnics and locals? 

### Section 1: Introduction: Does technology bind?
 1. Technology and migration
	 - Technological explanations for the emergence of more transnational patterns of migration prove to be incomplete when divorced from an analysis of the social relations of production.2 Rather it is the current moment of capitalism as a global mode of production that has necessitated the maintenance of family ties and political allegiances among persons spread across the globe (p. 15) in [1994.Basch, Glick Schiller-Nations Unbound](002.LiteratureNotes/1994.Basch,%20Glick%20Schiller-Nations%20Unbound.md)
 2. "core vs periphery" 
	 - post 1970, capitalist nations found it more profitable to set up production in "periphery" states. "core" economies, such as the US and other Western countries would be essential for managing "the periphery" leading to dramatic changes in the labor markets of these nation-states (p. 26) nations unbound. Also see pg 27 about multination companies bouncing around periphery countries in search of the highest profits
 3. [[Doi Moi]] policies and how this opened up migration and ushered ICTs into the country
	 - Persistent Abiguities Writing by Koh
		 - [2004.kohPersistentAmbiguitiesVietnamese2004](002.LiteratureNotes/2004.kohPersistentAmbiguitiesVietnamese2004.md)

4. History of internet in VN
	- [A brief here](https://saigoneer.com/saigon-technology/11831-a-brief-history-of-the-internet-in-vietnam-on-its-20th-birthday)
	- Vietnam's history with censorship
		- [Kill One to Warn One Hundred: The Politics of Press Censorship in Vietnam](https://www.viet-studies.com/kinhte/PressCensorship_IJP_2013.pdf)
		- [EXCLUSIVE Vietnam plans 24-hour take-down law for "illegal" social media content -sources | Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/business/media-telecom/exclusive-vietnam-plans-24-hour-take-down-law-illegal-social-media-content-2022-04-20/)

### Section 2: Online Gathering
1. Forms of media and ways used
	- [ict.facebook](001.Notes/ICTs/ict.facebook.md)
	- [ict.Youtube](001.Notes/ICTs/ict.Youtube.md) 
	- [ict.Instagram](001.Notes/ICTs/ict.Instagram.md)
	- [ict.zalo](001.Notes/ICTs/ict.zalo.md)
	- [ict.Spotify](001.Notes/ICTs/ict.Spotify.md)
	- [ict.LinkedIn](001.Notes/ICTs/ict.LinkedIn.md)
	- [ict.overseas vietnamese](https://overseasvietnamese.com/) (overseas Vietnamese (linkedin + their own forum))
	- [[ict.tiktok]]
	- [[ict.reddit]]

2. Keeping in touch with family and friends in natal home using ICTs
- [baldassar](005.Authors/baldassar.md)'s research about [copresence](copresence)

3. Online News for non Vietnamese-speaking audience (as expressed by informants of research)
	- facebook as main method of news many VKs say as their "source of news" in VN
	- [VN Express International](https://e.vnexpress.net/)
	- [Saigoneer.](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiH-5-t59b3AhVjpVYBHQMwBeEQFnoECBMQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fsaigoneer.com%2F&usg=AOvVaw0pa7bNZZ6jawqWcjkUHzyN) 
	- [Vietcetera](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjy1aqk59b3AhXrm1YBHXU9AeAQFnoECAwQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fvietcetera.com%2Fen&usg=AOvVaw3XtA5Sqi-wSWyVBplRAOyT)

### Section 3: Online Ethnic Identities

1. online groups where VKs connect
	- Online groups
		- Research of [nedelcu](005.Authors/nedelcu.md) 
			- [Nedelcu - Migrants New Transnational Habitus Rethinking Migration Through a Cosmopolitan Lens in the Digital Age](002.LiteratureNotes/Nedelcu%20-%20Migrants%20New%20Transnational%20Habitus%20Rethinking%20Migration%20Through%20a%20Cosmopolitan%20Lens%20in%20the%20Digital%20Age.md)
		- Goals of joining
		- facebook
		- [ict.overseas vietnamese](ict.overseas%20vietnamese)

 ### Section 4: Connections (cyber and phsyical)

1. With Locals
2. Coethnics
3. Expats
4. Frequency of physical meetups
5. dating and romance (Book: Dealing in desire). History of online dating: when did it become prevalent?. Thai, Hung Cam. 2008. _For Better or For Worse Vietnamese International Marriages in the New Global Economy_. Kings of candy shop journal article)
 6. Gendered experiences with ICTs
7. Return migration without ICTs?


[031.Chapter1_intro](000.Chapters/031.Chapter1_intro.md)
[032.Chapter2_westerners](000.Chapters/032.Chapter2_westerners.md)
[033.Chapter3_natal identity and belonging](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_natal%20identity%20and%20belonging.md)
[033.Chapter3_the return](000.Chapters/033.Chapter3_the%20return.md)
[034.Chapter4_Transnational virtual networks](000.Chapters/034.Chapter4_Transnational%20virtual%20networks.md)
[035.Chapter5_The state](000.Chapters/035.Chapter5_The%20state.md)
[036.Chapter6_outro](000.Chapters/036.Chapter6_outro.md)