---
title: "040.Article Writing"
enableToc: false # do not show a table of contents on this page
---

For [[_Spaces/work/Journals/Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies]]

see: 
- [2022.EuroSEAS_(dan presentation)](_Spaces/work/Conferences/2022.EuroSEAS_(dan%20presentation).md)

# My ideas for topics
- [[008.TheoriesAndConcepts/concept.digital ethnic enclave]] #concept 
- social networks. ICTs
- belongingness outcomes
- connecting to other expats
- hegemonic tendencies among western-born viets
- [Discimination and Racism](001.Notes/Discimination%20and%20Racism.md) of viets in western countries
	- seen in article by David Mellor in *The experiences of Vietnamese in Australia the racist tradition continues*
- #goodmemo #memo while [Su](005.Authors/Su.md) and [Barber](005.Authors/Barber.md)'s work had elements of non-belonging due to ties with [[001.Notes/north vs south mentality]], my research respondents, children of both north and south experienced an awkwardness with fitting in in Saigon, due to ICTs and a similar experience with return migration, they felt that they connected with others. breaking the [north vs south mentality](001.Notes/north%20vs%20south%20mentality.md) barrier created by the first generation.
	- "no solidarity" for viets on the east and west sides of the berlin wall but when their children meet in Saigon, they find solace in each other
	- [schwenkel](005.Authors/schwenkel.md)'s idea of [[socialist mobilities]] 
	- [nguoi ___ goc viet](001.Notes/nguoi%20___%20goc%20viet.md)
- 

## Readings to use
- [nguyen-akbar mytoan](005.Authors/nguyen-akbar%20mytoan.md)
- - [schiller2005.Transnational social fields and imperialism](002.LiteratureNotes/schiller2005.Transnational%20social%20fields%20and%20imperialism.md)
	- incorporate imperialism into analysis
- virtual transnational academics
	- [Lei, Guo - 2020 - Conceptualizing virtual transnational diaspora Returning to the ‘return’ of Chinese transnational academics-annotated](002.LiteratureNotes/Lei,%20Guo%20-%202020%20-%20Conceptualizing%20virtual%20transnational%20diaspora%20Returning%20to%20the%20‘return’%20of%20Chinese%20transnational%20academics-annotated.md)
- useful to show economic benefit american-born chinese get
	- Wang. 2016. The Benefits of in-betweenness return migration of second-generation Chinese American professionals to China
- educational experiences of refugee children: 
	- Bloch and Hirsh. The educational experiences of the second generation from refugee backgrounds
- Useful for showing state policies welcoming back [Viet Kieu](001.Notes/Viet%20Kieu.md) and local perceptions of VKs
	- [Chan and Tran 2011, Recycling Migration and Changing Nationalisms](002.LiteratureNotes/Chan%20and%20Tran%202011,%20Recycling%20Migration%20and%20Changing%20Nationalisms.md)
- e-diasporas project (nice intro)
	- [Diminescu, Loveluck, Paristech - 2014 - The connected migrant](002.LiteratureNotes/Diminescu,%20Loveluck,%20Paristech%20-%202014%20-%20The%20connected%20migrant.md)
- [small](005.Authors/small.md)
- [thai](005.Authors/thai.md)
- [hall](005.Authors/hall.md)
- [[005.Authors/baldassar]]
- [yuval-davis](005.Authors/yuval-davis.md)
	- about bordering and "gray spaces" where some migrants from below inhabit. my interviewees are not in this space.

## Writing outline

### Title 
Returns of the Vietnamese Westerners: Forging community, identity, and belonging through [ICTs](009.Themes/Identity%20and%20Belonging/theme.ICTs%20and%20Belonging.md)

### Research Questions:
1. How and why do the Western-born, 2nd generation use ICTs to mediate their returns to Viet Nam?
2. What are the outcomes of belonging for this group?
3. 

### Abstract (taken from [2022.EuroSEAS_(dan presentation)](_Spaces/work/Conferences/2022.EuroSEAS_(dan%20presentation).md))

Since the 1986 Doi Moi reform, an increasing number of labour migrants and students leave Viet Nam every year for better opportunities abroad. During the same period, a positive correlation can be seen with members of the diaspora returning to the country. According to government estimates, over 500,000 Vietnamese return to Vietnam each year to work, live, and retire. Among these returnees are a group who have made Viet Nam their home: the Western-born, second generation. This presentation explores the significance of online community memberships in the construction of identity and belonging among Western-born Vietnamese who “return” to their ancestral homeland. Drawing on 31 online in-depth interviews with second generation Vietnamese living in Viet Nam, from 12 disparate Western countries, it examines when, how, and why they use information communication technologies to create identity and spaces of belonging. Employing a framework of social and migrant capital theories, I reveal the obstacles and advantages these return migrants encounter with belonging as they coexist with other western-born coethnics and locals in their ancestral homeland. A focus on the outcomes of various belongings between coethnics and locals is examined to demonstrate how returnees' various capitals are impacted. My preliminary findings suggest that when confronted with exclusion and feelings of non-belonging, returnees seek out the familiar whether online or offline: other Western-born expats.



## Intro
- development of ICTs has connected the diaspora to each other and homeland. 
	- once called the "double absent" population, this group could be now called the "double present" (my term). 
	- even before setting foot in the country of migration, migrants have already done research and know about the place they're going via icts. [[001.Notes/online migrants]]
- [concept.imagined communities](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/concept.imagined%20communities.md)
- [concept.diaspora](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/concept.diaspora.md)
- labor migrants leaving, 2nd generation coming in
	- see note on [p258](002.LiteratureNotes/2019.erel-Migrant%20Capitals%20Proposing.md#p258) in [2019.erel-Migrant Capitals Proposing](002.LiteratureNotes/2019.erel-Migrant%20Capitals%20Proposing.md)
- on [theory.situated intersectionality](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.situated%20intersectionality.md) where hierarchy is intertwined in all positionings. 
	- [yuval-davis, wemyss, cassidy - 2019 - Bordering](002.LiteratureNotes/yuval-davis,%20wemyss,%20cassidy%20-%202019%20-%20Bordering.md)
	- [yuval-davis - 2006 - Belonging and the politics of belonging](002.LiteratureNotes/yuval-davis%20-%202006%20-%20Belonging%20and%20the%20politics%20of%20belonging.md)
- on citizenship and belonging and spatial belongings, stating that some people get to go in and some get to stay and establish long-term life projects within a country
	
- 2nd generation Vietnamese, [[001.Notes/post-1965 immigration]]
	- experiences in receiving countries
		- [rutledge](005.Authors/rutledge.md)
		- [Carruthers](005.Authors/Carruthers.md)
		- [valverde](005.Authors/valverde.md)
		- [bankston and zhou](005.Authors/bankston%20and%20zhou.md)
- return migration
		- [Markowitz - 2012 - Ethnic Return Migrations — ( Are Not Quite ) — Diasporic Homecomings-annotated](Attachments/PDFs/Markowitz%20-%202012%20-%20Ethnic%20Return%20Migrations%20—%20(%20Are%20Not%20Quite%20)%20—%20Diasporic%20Homecomings-annotated.pdf)
		- [ethnic return migration](001.Notes/ethnic%20return%20migration.md)
		- [theory.Homing](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.Homing.md) according to [Jo, Ji-Yeon](005.Authors/Jo,%20Ji-Yeon.md)
		- [highly skilled migrants](001.Notes/highly%20skilled%20migrants.md)
		- [2015.reed-danahay-Foreigner My Own](002.LiteratureNotes/2015.reed-danahay-Foreigner%20My%20Own.md)
		- in line with [nguyen-akbar mytoan](005.Authors/nguyen-akbar%20mytoan.md) on highly-skilled migrants
		- [Wessendorf - 2007 - 'Roots migrants' Transnationalism and 'return' among second-generation Italians in Switzerland-annotated](Attachments/PDFs/Wessendorf%20-%202007%20-%20'Roots%20migrants'%20Transnationalism%20and%20'return'%20among%20second-generation%20Italians%20in%20Switzerland-annotated.pdf)
		- [2008.nguyen-We return in order to take leave](002.LiteratureNotes/2008.nguyen-We%20return%20in%20order%20to%20take%20leave.md)
		- [2017. Diasporic Returns to the Ethnic Homeland-Tsuda, Changzoo](002.LiteratureNotes/2017.%20Diasporic%20Returns%20to%20the%20Ethnic%20Homeland-Tsuda,%20Changzoo.md)
	- shift in geopolitical and economic power 
		- poor-->rich, rich-->poor traditional transnational flows were from countries positioned lower on geopolitical power nexus to ones on higher geopolitical nexus
		- 2008 economic crisis as pull/push factor 
			- as seen in:
				- [Werbner](005.Authors/Werbner.md)
				- [2020.Nozina and Kraus-Vietnamese Organized Crime in the Czech Republic](002.LiteratureNotes/2020.Nozina%20and%20Kraus-Vietnamese%20Organized%20Crime%20in%20the%20Czech%20Republic.md)
		- returnees taking advantage of geopolitical positioning of their parents' settlement countries. [hegemony](001.Notes/hegemony.md)
	- state views on returnees and [Viet Kieu](001.Notes/Viet%20Kieu.md)
		- [Chan and Tran 2011, Recycling Migration and Changing Nationalisms](002.LiteratureNotes/Chan%20and%20Tran%202011,%20Recycling%20Migration%20and%20Changing%20Nationalisms.md)
		- [valverde](005.Authors/valverde.md) 
	- ICTs and online migrants
		- [nedelcu](005.Authors/nedelcu.md)

## Theoretical/conceptual Framework
- [theory.migrant capital](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.migrant%20capital.md)
- [theory.situated intersectionality](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.situated%20intersectionality.md)
	- [yuval-davis - 2017 - situated intersectionality](002.LiteratureNotes/yuval-davis%20-%202017%20-%20situated%20intersectionality.md)
- - [schiller2005.Transnational social fields and imperialism](002.LiteratureNotes/schiller2005.Transnational%20social%20fields%20and%20imperialism.md)
- 
	- incorporate imperialism into analysis
- [Werbner](005.Authors/Werbner.md)
- [theory.transnational social fields](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.transnational%20social%20fields.md)
- [Levitt, Glick-Schiller - Transnational social fields-annotated](002.LiteratureNotes/Levitt,%20Glick-Schiller%20-%20Transnational%20social%20fields-annotated.md)
- [theory.transnational habitus](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/theory.transnational%20habitus.md)
- [concept.digital diaspora](008.TheoriesAndConcepts/concept.digital%20diaspora.md)
- [yuval-davis](005.Authors/yuval-davis.md)

## Methodology
- online in-depth interviews
- online netnography [nedelcu](005.Authors/nedelcu.md)

## Results
- Ways of [belonging](<[belonging](001.Notes/belonging.md)>)
	- Charity work and giving back (housemaid) as expressed by Chi
	- Coaching/Rooftop sessions as expressed by Alex
	- Coaching as expressed by Nicolas
	- Chris, Youtube videos by Willis and Sophie
	- ICTs used
		- not using zalo
		- 
